Habitat: A Platform for Embodied AI Research Manolis Savva1,4*, Abhishek Kadian1*, Oleksandr Maksymets1*, Yili Zhao1, Erik Wijmans1,2,3, Bhavana Jain1, Julian Straub2, Jia Liu1, Vladlen Koltun5, Jitendra Malik1,6, Devi Parikh1,3, Dhruv Batra1,3 1Facebook AI Research, 2Facebook Reality Labs, 3Georgia Institute of Technology, 4Simon Fraser University, 5Intel Labs, 6UC Berkeley https://aihabitat.org Abstract We present Habitat, a platform for research in embodied artiﬁcial intelligence (AI). Habitat enables training embod- ied agents (virtual robots) in highly efﬁcient photorealistic 3D simulation. Speciﬁcally, Habitat consists of: (i) Habitat-Sim: a ﬂexible, high-performance 3D sim- ulator with conﬁgurable agents, sensors, and generic 3D dataset handling. Habitat-Sim is fast – when rendering a scene from Matterport3D, it achieves several thousand frames per second (fps) running single-threaded, and can reach over 10,000 fps multi-process on a single GPU. (ii) Habitat-API: a modular high-level library for end-to- end development of embodied AI algorithms – deﬁning tasks (e.g. navigation, instruction following, question answering), conﬁguring, training, and benchmarking embodied agents. These large-scale engineering contributions enable us to answer scientiﬁc questions requiring experiments that were till now impracticable or ‘merely’ impractical. Speciﬁcally, in the context of point-goal navigation: (1) we revisit the comparison between learning and SLAM approaches from two recent works [20, 16] and ﬁnd evidence for the oppo- site conclusion – that learning outperforms SLAM if scaled to an order of magnitude more experience than previous investigations, and (2) we conduct the ﬁrst cross-dataset generalization experiments {train, test} × {Matterport3D, Gibson} for multiple sensors {blind, RGB, RGBD, D} and ﬁnd that only agents with depth (D) sensors generalize across datasets. We hope that our open-source platform and these ﬁndings will advance research in embodied AI. *Denotes equal contribution. 1. Introduction The embodiment hypothesis is the idea that intelligence emerges in the interaction of an agent with an environment and as a result of sensorimotor activity. Smith and Gasser [26] Imagine walking up to a home robot and asking ‘Hey – can you go check if my laptop is on my desk? And if so, bring it to me.’ In order to be successful, such a robot would need a range of skills – visual perception (to recognize scenes and objects), language understanding (to translate questions and instructions into actions), and navigation in complex environ- ments (to move and ﬁnd things in a changing environment). While there has been signiﬁcant progress in the vision and language communities thanks to recent advances in deep representations [14, 11], much of this progress has been on ‘internet AI’ rather than embodied AI. The focus of the former is pattern recognition in images, videos, and text on datasets typically curated from the internet [10, 18, 4]. The focus of the latter is to enable action by an embodied agent (e.g. a robot) in an environment. This brings to the fore active perception, long-term planning, learning from interaction, and holding a dialog grounded in an environment. A straightforward proposal is to train agents directly in the physical world – exposing them to all its richness. This is valuable and will continue to play an important role in the development of AI. However, we also recognize that train- ing robots in the real world is slow (the real world runs no faster than real time and cannot be parallelized), dangerous (poorly-trained agents can unwittingly injure themselves, the environment, or others), resource intensive (the robot(s) and the environment(s) in which they execute demand resources and time), difﬁcult to control (it is hard to test corner-case scenarios as these are, by deﬁnition, infrequent and chal- lenging to recreate), and not easily reproducible (replicating conditions across experiments and institutions is difﬁcult). We aim to support a complementary research program: arXiv:1904.01201v2 [cs.CV] 25 Nov 2019 Replica (Straub et al., 2019) Datasets Matterport3D (Chang et al., 2017) 2D-3D-S (Armeni et al., 2017) Simulators AI2-THOR (Kolve et al., 2017) MINOS (Savva et al., 2017) Gibson (Zamir et al., 2018) CHALET (Yan et al., 2018) House3D (Wu et al., 2017) Habitat Sim Generic Dataset Support Habitat API Habitat Platform EmbodiedQA (Das et al., 2018) Tasks Interactive QA (Gordon et al., 2018) Vision-Language Navigation (Anderson et al., 2018) Language grounding (Hill et al., 2017) Visual Navigation (Zhu et al., 2017, Gupta et al., 2017) Figure 1: The ‘software stack’ for training embodied agents involves (1) datasets providing 3D assets with semantic annotations, (2) simulators that render these assets and within which an embodied agent may be simulated, and (3) tasks that deﬁne evaluatable problems that enable us to benchmark scientiﬁc progress. Prior work (highlighted in blue boxes) has contributed a variety of datasets, simulation software, and task deﬁnitions. We propose a uniﬁed embodied agent stack with the Habitat platform, including generic dataset support, a highly performant simulator (Habitat-Sim), and a ﬂexible API (Habitat-API) allowing the deﬁnition and evaluation of a broad set of tasks. training embodied agents (e.g. virtual robots) in rich realistic simulators and then transferring the learned skills to reality. Simulations have a long and rich history in science and engineering (from aerospace to zoology). In the context of embodied AI, simulators help overcome the aforementioned challenges – they can run orders of magnitude faster than real-time and can be parallelized over a cluster; training in simulation is safe, cheap, and enables fair comparison and benchmarking of progress in a concerted community- wide effort. Once a promising approach has been developed and tested in simulation, it can be transferred to physical platforms that operate in the real world [6, 15]. Datasets have been a key driver of progress in computer vision, NLP, and other areas of AI [10, 18, 4, 1]. As the community transitions to embodied AI, we believe that sim- ulators will assume the role played previously by datasets. To support this transition, we aim to standardize the entire ‘software stack’ for training embodied agents (Figure 1): scanning the world and creating photorealistic 3D assets, de- veloping the next generation of highly efﬁcient and paralleliz- able simulators, specifying embodied AI tasks that enable us to benchmark scientiﬁc progress, and releasing modu- lar high-level libraries for training and deploying embodied agents. Speciﬁcally, Habitat consists of the following: 1. Habitat-Sim: a ﬂexible, high-performance 3D simulator with conﬁgurable agents, multiple sensors, and generic 3D dataset handling (with built-in support for Mat- terport3D, Gibson, and Replica datasets). 2. Habitat-API: a modular high-level library for end- to-end development of embodied AI algorithms – deﬁning embodied AI tasks (e.g. navigation, instruction following, question answering), conﬁguring and training embodied agents (via imitation or reinforcement learning, or via classic SLAM), and benchmarking using standard metrics [2]. The Habitat architecture and implementation combine modularity and high performance. When rendering a scene from the Matterport3D dataset, Habitat-Sim achieves several thousand frames per second (fps) running single- threaded, and can reach over 10,000 fps multi-process on a single GPU, which is orders of magnitude faster than the closest simulator. Habitat-API allows us to train and benchmark embodied agents with different classes of meth- ods and in different 3D scene datasets. These large-scale engineering contributions enable us to answer scientiﬁc questions requiring experiments that were till now impracticable or ‘merely’ impractical. Speciﬁcally, in the context of point-goal navigation [2], we make two scientiﬁc contributions: 1. We revisit the comparison between learning and SLAM approaches from two recent works [20, 16] and ﬁnd evidence for the opposite conclusion – that learning out- performs SLAM if scaled to an order of magnitude more experience than previous investigations. 2. We conduct the ﬁrst cross-dataset generalization exper- iments {train, test} × {Matterport3D, Gibson} for multiple sensors {Blind1, RGB, RGBD, D} × {GPS+Compass} and ﬁnd that only agents with depth (D) sensors generalize well across datasets. We hope that our open-source platform and these ﬁndings will advance and guide future research in embodied AI. 1Blind refers to agents with no visual sensory inputs. 2. Related Work Reality is something you rise above. Liza Minnelli The availability of large-scale 3D scene datasets [5, 27, 8] and community interest in active vision tasks led to a recent surge of work that resulted in the development of a variety of simulation platforms for indoor environments [17, 7, 13, 24, 29, 3, 30, 31, 23]. These platforms vary with respect to the 3D scene data they use, the embodied agent tasks they address, and the evaluation protocols they implement. This surge of activity is both thrilling and alarming. On the one hand, it is clearly a sign of the interest in embodied AI across diverse research communities (computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, machine learning). On the other hand, the existence of multiple differing simulation environments can cause fragmentation, replication of effort, and difﬁculty in reproduction and community-wide progress. Moreover, existing simulators exhibit several shortcomings: – Tight coupling of task (e.g. navigation), simulation plat- form (e.g. GibsonEnv), and 3D dataset (e.g. Gibson). Ex- periments with multiple tasks or datasets are impractical. – Hard-coded agent conﬁguration (e.g. size, action-space). Ablations of agent parameters and sensor types are not supported, making results hard to compare. – Suboptimal rendering and simulation performance. Most existing indoor simulators operate at relatively low frame rates (10-100 fps), becoming a bottleneck in training agents and making large-scale learning infeasible. Take- away messages from such experiments become unreliable – has the learning converged to trust the comparisons? – Limited control of environment state. The structure of the 3D scene in terms of present objects cannot be program- matically modiﬁed (e.g. to test the robustness of agents). Most critically, work built on top of any of the existing platforms is hard to reproduce independently from the plat- form, and thus hard to evaluate against work based on a different platform, even in cases where the target tasks and datasets are the same. This status quo is undesirable and mo- tivates the Habitat effort. We aim to learn from the successes of previous frameworks and develop a unifying platform that combines their desirable characteristics while addressing their limitations. A common, unifying platform can sig- niﬁcantly accelerate research by enabling code re-use and consistent experimental methodology. Moreover, a common platform enables us to easily carry out experiments testing agents based on different paradigms (learned vs. classical) and generalization of agents between datasets. The experiments we carry out contrasting learned and classical approaches to navigation are similar to the recent work of Mishkin et al. [20]. However, the performance of the Habitat stack relative to MINOS [24] used in [20] Figure 2: Example rendered sensor observations for three sensors (color camera, depth sensor, semantic instance mask) in two differ- ent environment datasets. A Matterport3D [8] environment is in the top row, and a Replica [28] environment in the bottom row. – thousands vs. one hundred frames per second – allows us to evaluate agents that have been trained with signiﬁ- cantly larger amounts of experience (75 million steps vs. ﬁve million steps). The trends we observe demonstrate that learned agents can begin to match and outperform classical approaches when provided with large amounts of training experience. Other recent work by Koijima and Deng [16] has also compared hand-engineered navigation agents against learned agents but their focus is on deﬁning additional met- rics to characterize the performance of agents and to establish measures of hardness for navigation episodes. To our knowl- edge, our experiments are the ﬁrst to train navigation agents provided with multi-month experience in realistic indoor environments and contrast them against classical methods. 3. Habitat Platform What I cannot create I do not understand. Richard Feynman The development of Habitat is a long-term effort to en- able the formation of a common task framework [12] for research into embodied agents, thereby supporting system- atic research progress in this area. Design requirements. The issues discussed in the previous section lead us to a set of requirements that we seek to fulﬁll. – Highly performant rendering engine: resource- efﬁcient rendering engine that can produce multiple chan- nels of visual information (e.g. RGB, depth, semantic instance segmentation, surface normals, optical ﬂow) for multiple concurrently operating agents. – Scene dataset ingestion API: makes the platform agnos- tic to 3D scene datasets and allows users to use their own datasets. – Agent API: allows users to specify parameterized em- bodied agents with well-deﬁned geometry, physics, and actuation characteristics. – Sensor suite API: allows speciﬁcation of arbitrary num- bers of parameterized sensors (e.g. RGB, depth, contact, GPS, compass sensors) attached to each agent. – Scenario and task API: allows portable deﬁnition of tasks and their evaluation protocols. – Implementation: C++ backend with Python API and interoperation with common learning frameworks, mini- mizes entry threshold. – Containerization: enables distributed training in clusters and remote-server evaluation of user-provided code. – Humans-as-agents: allows humans to function as agents in simulation in order to collect human behavior and in- vestigate human-agent or human-human interactions. – Environment state manipulation: programmatic con- trol of the environment conﬁguration in terms of the ob- jects that are present and their relative layout. Design overview. The above design requirements cut across several layers in the ‘software stack’ in Figure 1. A mono- lithic design is not suitable for addressing requirements at all levels. We, therefore, structure the Habitat platform to mirror this multi-layer abstraction. At the lowest level is Habitat-Sim, a ﬂexible, high- performance 3D simulator, responsible for loading 3D scenes into a standardized scene-graph representation, conﬁguring agents with multiple sensors, simulating agent motion, and returning sensory data from an agent’s sensor suite. The sensor abstraction in Habitat allows additional sensors such as LIDAR and IMU to be easily implemented as plugins. Generic 3D dataset API using scene graphs. Habitat-Sim employs a hierarchical scene graph to represent all supported 3D environment datasets, whether synthetic or based on real-world reconstructions. The use of a uniform scene graph representation allows us to abstract the details of speciﬁc datasets, and to treat them in a consistent fashion. Scene graphs allow us to compose 3D environments through procedural scene generation, editing, or programmatic manipulation. Rendering engine. The Habitat-Sim backend module is implemented in C++ and leverages the Magnum graphics middleware library2 to support cross-platform deployment on a broad variety of hardware conﬁgurations. The simu- lator backend employs an efﬁcient rendering pipeline that implements visual sensor frame rendering using a multi- attachment ‘uber-shader’ combining outputs for color cam- era sensors, depth sensors, and semantic mask sensors. By allowing all outputs to be produced in a single render pass, we avoid additional overhead when sensor parameters are shared and the same render pass can be used for all outputs. Figure 2 shows examples of visual sensors rendered in three different supported datasets. The same agent and sensor conﬁguration was instantiated in a scene from each of the 2https://magnum.graphics/ 1 process 5 processes Sensors / Resolution 128 256 512 128 256 512 RGB 4,093 1,987 848 10,592 3,574 2,629 RGB + depth 2,050 1,042 423 5,223 1,774 1,348 Table 1: Performance of Habitat-Sim in frames per second for an example Matterport3D scene (id 17DRP5sb8fy) on an Intel Xeon E5-2690 v4 CPU and Nvidia Titan Xp GPU, measured at different frame resolutions and with a varying number of concur- rent simulator processes sharing the GPU. See the supplement for additional benchmarking results. three datasets by simply specifying a different input scene. Performance. Habitat-Sim achieves thousands of frames per second per simulator thread and is orders of mag- nitude faster than previous simulators for realistic indoor environments (which typically operate at tens or hundreds of frames per second) – see Table 1 for a summary and the sup- plement for more details. By comparison, AI2-THOR [17] and CHALET [31] run at tens of fps, MINOS [24] and Gib- son [30] run at about a hundred, and House3D [29] runs at about 300 fps. Habitat-Sim is 2-3 orders of magnitude faster. By operating at 10,000 frames per second we shift the bottleneck from simulation to optimization for network training. Based on TensorFlow benchmarks, many popular network architectures run at frame rates that are 10-100x lower on a single GPU3. In practice, we have observed that it is often faster to generate images using Habitat-Sim than to load images from disk. Efﬁcient GPU throughput. Currently, frames rendered by Habitat-Sim are exposed as Python tensors through shared memory. Future development will focus on even higher rendering efﬁciency by entirely avoiding GPU-to- CPU memory copy overhead through the use of CUDA-GL interoperation and direct sharing of render buffers and tex- tures as tensors. Our preliminary internal testing suggests that this can lead to a speedup by a factor of 2. Above the simulation backend, the Habitat-API layer is a modular high-level library for end-to-end development in embodied AI. Setting up an embodied task involves speci- fying observations that may be used by the agent(s), using environment information provided by the simulator, and con- necting the information with a task-speciﬁc episode dataset. – Task: this class extends the simulator’s Observations class and action space with task- speciﬁc ones. The criteria of episode termination and measures of success are provided by the Task. For example, in goal-driven navigation, Task provides the goal and evaluation metric [2]. To support this kind of functionality the Task has read-only access to 3https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/performance/ benchmarks Simulator and Episode-Dataset. – Episode: a class for episode speciﬁcation that includes the initial position and orientation of an Agent, scene id, goal position, and optionally the shortest path to the goal. An episode is a description of an instance of the task. – Environment: the fundamental environment concept for Habitat, abstracting all the information needed for working on embodied tasks with a simulator. More details about the architecture of the Habitat plat- form, performance measurements, and examples of API use are provided in the supplement. 4. PointGoal Navigation at Scale To demonstrate the utility of the Habitat platform de- sign, we carry out experiments to test for generalization of goal-directed visual navigation agents between datasets of different environments and to compare the performance of learning-based agents against classic agents as the amount of available training experience is increased. Task deﬁnition. We use the PointGoal task (as deﬁned by Anderson et al. [2]) as our experimental testbed. This task is ostensibly simple to deﬁne – an agent is initialized at a ran- dom starting position and orientation in an environment and asked to navigate to target coordinates that are provided rela- tive to the agent’s position; no ground-truth map is available and the agent must only use its sensory input to navigate. However, in the course of experiments, we realized that this task leaves space for subtle choices that (a) can make a signiﬁcant difference in experimental outcomes and (b) are either not speciﬁed or inconsistent across papers, making comparison difﬁcult. We attempt to be as descriptive as pos- sible about these seemingly low-level choices; we hope the Habitat platform will help iron out these inconsistencies. Agent embodiment and action space. The agent is physi- cally embodied as a cylindrical primitive shape with diame- ter 0.2m and height 1.5m. The action space consists of four actions: turn_left, turn_right, move_forward, and stop. These actions are mapped to idealized actua- tions that result in 10 degree turns for the turning actions and linear displacement of 0.25m for the move_forward action. The stop action allows the agent to signal that it has reached the goal. Habitat supports noisy actuations but experiments in this paper are conducted in the noise-free setting as our analysis focuses on other factors. Collision dynamics. Some previous works [3] use a coarse irregular navigation graph where an agent effectively ‘tele- ports’ from one location to another (1-2m apart). Others [9] use a ﬁne-grained regular grid (0.01m resolution) where the agent moves on unoccupied cells and there are no collisions or partial steps. In Habitat and our experiments, we use a more realistic collision model – the agent navigates in a continuous state space4 and motion can produce collisions resulting in partial (or no) progress along the direction in- tended – simply put, it is possible for the agent to ‘slide’ along a wall or obstacle. Crucially, the agent may choose move_forward (0.25m) and end up in a location that is not 0.25m forward of where it started; thus, odometry is not trivial even in the absence of actuation noise. Goal speciﬁcation: static or dynamic? One conspicuous underspeciﬁcation in the PointGoal task [2] is whether the goal coordinates are static (i.e. provided once at the start of the episode) or dynamic (i.e. provided at every time step). The former is more realistic – it is difﬁcult to imagine a real task where an oracle would provide precise dynamic goal co- ordinates. However, in the absence of actuation noise and col- lisions, every step taken by the agent results in a known turn or translation, and this combined with the initial goal loca- tion is functionally equivalent to dynamic goal speciﬁcation. We hypothesize that this is why recent works [16, 20, 13] used dynamic goal speciﬁcation. We follow and prescribe the following conceptual delineation – as a task, we adopt static PointGoal navigation; as for the sensor suite, we equip our agents with an idealized GPS+Compass sensor. This ori- ents us towards a realistic task (static PointGoal navigation), disentangles simulator design (actuation noise, collision dy- namics) from the task deﬁnition, and allows us to compare techniques by sensors used (RGB, depth, GPS, compass, contact sensors). Sensory input. The agents are endowed with a single color vision sensor placed at a height of 1.5m from the center of the agent’s base and oriented to face ‘forward’. This sensor provides RGB frames at a resolution of 2562 pixels and with a ﬁeld of view of 90 degrees. In addition, an idealized depth sensor is available, in the same position and orientation as the color vision sensor. The ﬁeld of view and resolution of the depth sensor match those of the color vision sensor. We designate agents that make use of the color sensor by RGB, agents that make use of the depth sensor by Depth, and agents that make use of both by RGBD. Agents that use neither sensor are denoted as Blind. All agents are equipped with an idealized GPS and compass – i.e., they have access to their location coordinates, and implicitly their orientation relative to the goal position. Episode speciﬁcation. We initialize the agent at a start- ing position and orientation that are sampled uniformly at random from all navigable positions on the ﬂoor of the envi- ronment. The goal position is chosen such that it lies on the same ﬂoor and there exists a navigable path from the agent’s starting position. During the episode, the agent is allowed to take up to 500 actions. This threshold signiﬁcantly exceeds the number of steps an optimal agent requires to reach all goals (see the supplement). After each action, the agent 4Up to machine precision. receives a set of observations from the active sensors. Evaluation. A navigation episode is considered successful if and only if the agent issues a stop action within 0.2m of the target coordinates, as measured by a geodesic distance along the shortest path from the agent’s position to the goal position. If the agent takes 500 actions without the above condition being met the episode ends and is considered un- successful. Performance is measured using the ‘Success weighted by Path Length’ (SPL) metric [2]. For an episode where the geodesic distance of the shortest path is l and the agent traverses a distance p, SPL is deﬁned as S · l/max(p,l), where S is a binary indicator of success. Episode dataset preparation. We create PointGoal naviga- tion episode-datasets for Matterport3D [8] and Gibson [30] scenes. For Matterport3D we followed the publicly available train/val/test splits. Note that as in recent works [9, 20, 16], there is no overlap between train, val, and test scenes. For Gibson scenes, we obtained textured 3D surface meshes from the Gibson authors [30], manually annotated each scene on its reconstruction quality (small/big holes, ﬂoating/irregular surfaces, poor textures), and curated a subset of 106 scenes (out of 572); see the supplement for details. An episode is de- ﬁned by the unique id of the scene, the starting position and orientation of the agent, and the goal position. Additional metadata such as the geodesic distance along the shortest path (GDSP) from start position to goal position is also in- cluded. While generating episodes, we restrict the GDSP to be between 1m and 30m. An episode is trivial if there is an obstacle-free straight line between the start and goal positions. A good measure of the navigation complexity of an episode is the ratio of GDSP to Euclidean distance between start and goal positions (notice that GDSP can only be larger than or equal to the Euclidean distance). If the ratio is nearly 1, there are few obstacles and the episode is easy; if the ratio is much larger than 1, the episode is difﬁcult because strategic navigation is required. To keep the navi- gation complexity of the precomputed episodes reasonably high, we perform rejection sampling for episodes with the above ratio falling in the range [1, 1.1]. Following this, there is a signiﬁcant decrease in the number of near-straight-line episodes (episodes with a ratio in [1, 1.1]) – from 37% to 10% for the Gibson dataset generation. This step was not performed in any previous studies. We ﬁnd that without this ﬁltering, all metrics appear inﬂated. Gibson scenes have smaller physical dimensions compared to the Matterport3D scenes. This is reﬂected in the resulting PointGoal dataset – average GDSP of episodes in Gibson scenes is smaller than that of Matterport3D scenes. Baselines. We compare the following baselines: – Random chooses an action randomly among turn_left, turn_right, and move_forward with uniform distribution. The agent calls the stop action when within 0.2m of the goal (computed using the difference of static goal and dynamic GPS coordinates). – Forward only always calls the move_forward action, and calls the stop action when within 0.2m of the goal. – Goal follower moves towards the goal direction. If it is not facing the goal (more than 15 degrees off-axis), it performs turn_left or turn_right to align itself; otherwise, it calls move_forward. The agent calls the stop action when within 0.2m of the goal. – RL (PPO) is an agent trained with reinforcement learn- ing, speciﬁcally proximal policy optimization [25]. We experiment with RL agents equipped with different visual sensors: no visual input (Blind), RGB input, Depth input, and RGB with depth (RGBD). The model consists of a CNN that produces an embedding for visual input, which together with the relative goal vector is used by an actor (GRU) and a critic (linear layer). The CNN has the following architecture: {Conv 8×8, ReLU, Conv 4×4, ReLU, Conv 3×3, ReLU, Linear, ReLU} (see supplement for details). Let rt denote the reward at timestep t, dt be the geodesic distance to goal at timestep t, s a success reward and λ a time penalty (to encourage efﬁciency). All models were trained with the following reward function: rt = ( s + dt−1 −dt + λ if goal is reached dt−1 −dt + λ otherwise In our experiments s is set to 10 and λ is set to −0.01. Note that rewards are only provided in training environ- ments; the task is challenging as the agent must generalize to unseen test environments. – SLAM [20] is an agent implementing a classic robotics navigation pipeline (including components for localiza- tion, mapping, and planning), using RGB and depth sen- sors. We use the classic agent by Mishkin et al. [20] which leverages the ORB-SLAM2 [21] localization pipeline, with the same parameters as reported in the original work. Training procedure. When training learning-based agents, we ﬁrst divide the scenes in the training set equally among 8 (Gibson), 6 (Matterport3D) concurrently running simula- tor worker threads. Each thread establishes blocks of 500 training episodes for each scene in its training set partition and shufﬂes the ordering of these blocks. Training continues through shufﬂed copies of this array. We do not hardcode the stop action to retain generality and allow for comparison with future work that does not assume GPS inputs. For the experiments reported here, we train until 75 million agent steps are accumulated across all worker threads. This is 15x larger than the experience used in previous investiga- tions [20, 16]. Training agents to 75 million steps took (in sum over all three datasets): 320 GPU-hours for Blind, 566 GPU-hours for RGB, 475 GPU-hours for Depth, and 906 GPU-hours for RGBD (overall 2267 GPU-hours). 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Number of training steps taken (experience) in million 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 SPL Performance on Gibson validation split RGB Depth RGBD Blind SLAM 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Number of training steps taken (experience) in million 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 SPL Performance on Matterport3D validation split RGB Depth RGBD Blind SLAM Figure 3: Average SPL of agents on the val set over the course of training. Previous work [20, 16] has analyzed performance at 5-10 million steps. Interesting trends emerge with more experience: i) Blind agents initially outperform RGB and RGBD but saturate quickly; ii) Learning-based Depth agents outperform classic SLAM. The shaded areas around curves show the standard error of SPL over ﬁve seeds. Gibson MP3D Sensors Baseline SPL Succ SPL Succ Blind Random 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 Forward only 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Goal follower 0.23 0.23 0.12 0.12 RL (PPO) 0.42 0.62 0.25 0.35 RGB RL (PPO) 0.46 0.64 0.30 0.42 Depth RL (PPO) 0.79 0.89 0.54 0.69 RGBD RL (PPO) 0.70 0.80 0.42 0.53 SLAM [20] 0.51 0.62 0.39 0.47 Table 2: Performance of baseline methods on the PointGoal task [2] tested on the Gibson [30] and MP3D [8] test sets under multiple sensor conﬁgurations. RL models have been trained for 75 million steps. We report average rate of episode success and SPL [2]. 5. Results and Findings We seek to answer two questions: i) how do learning- based agents compare to classic SLAM and hand-coded baselines as the amount of training experience increases and ii) how well do learned agents generalize across 3D datasets. It should be tacitly understood, but to be explicit – ‘learn- ing’ and ‘SLAM’ are broad families of techniques (and not a single method), are not necessarily mutually exclusive, and are not ‘settled’ in their development. We compare rep- resentative instances of these families to gain insight into questions of scaling and generalization, and do not make any claims about intrinsic superiority of one or the other. Learning vs SLAM. To answer the ﬁrst question we plot agent performance (SPL) on validation (i.e. unseen) episodes over the course of training in Figure 3 (top: Gibson, bottom: Matterport3D). SLAM [20] does not require training and thus has a constant performance (0.59 on Gibson, 0.42 on Matterport3D). All RL (PPO) agents start out with far worse SPL, but RL (PPO) Depth, in particular, improves dra- matically and matches the classic baseline at approximately 10M frames (Gibson) or 30M frames (Matterport3D) of ex- perience, continuing to improve thereafter. Notice that if we terminated the experiment at 5M frames as in [20] we would also conclude that SLAM [20] dominates. Interest- ingly, RGB agents do not signiﬁcantly outperform Blind agents; we hypothesize because both are equipped with GPS sensors. Indeed, qualitative results (Figure 4 and video in supplement) suggest that Blind agents ‘hug’ walls and implement ‘wall following’ heuristics. In contrast, RGB sen- sors provide a high-dimensional complex signal that may be prone to overﬁtting to train environments due to the variety across scenes (even within the same dataset). We also notice in Figure 3 that all methods perform better on Gibson than Matterport3D. This is consistent with our previous analysis that Gibson contains smaller scenes and shorter episodes. Next, for each agent and dataset, we select the best- performing checkpoint on validation and report results on test in Table 2. We observe that uniformly across the datasets, RL (PPO) Depth performs best, outperforming RL (PPO) RGBD (by 0.09-0.16 SPL), SLAM (by 0.15-0.28 SPL), and RGB (by 0.13-0.33 SPL) in that order (see the supplement for additional experiments involving noisy depth). We believe Depth performs better than RGBD because i) the PointGoal navigation task requires reasoning only about free space and depth provides relevant information directly, and ii) RGB has signiﬁcantly more entropy (different houses look very different), thus it is easier to overﬁt when using RGB. We ran our experiments with 5 random seeds per run, to conﬁrm that these differences are statistically signiﬁcant. The differences are about an order of magnitude larger than the standard devi- ation of average SPL for all cases (e.g. on the Gibson dataset errors are, Depth: ±0.015, RGB: ±0.055, RGBD: ±0.028, Blind: ±0.005). Random and forward-only agents have Gibson MP3D Blind SPL=0.28 RGB SPL=0.57 RGBD SPL=0.91 Depth SPL=0.98 Blind SPL=0.35 RGB SPL=0.88 RGBD SPL=0.90 Depth SPL=0.94 Figure 4: Navigation examples for different sensory conﬁgurations of the RL (PPO) agent, visualizing trials from the Gibson and MP3D val sets. A blue dot and red dot indicate the starting and goal positions, and the blue arrow indicates ﬁnal agent position. The blue-green-red line is the agent’s trajectory. Color shifts from blue to red as the maximum number of agent steps is approached. See the supplemental materials for more example trajectories. Gibson MP3D Blind Gibson MP3D RGB Gibson MP3D Depth Gibson MP3D RGBD Gibson MP3D 0.25 0.34 0.28 0.42 0.30 0.40 0.25 0.46 0.54 0.68 0.56 0.79 0.42 0.53 0.44 0.70 Figure 5: Generalization of agents between datasets. We report average SPL for a model trained on the source dataset in each row, as evaluated on test episodes for the target dataset in each column. very low performance, while the hand-coded goal follower and Blind baseline see modest performance.See the sup- plement for additional analysis of trained agent behavior. In Figure 4 we plot example trajectories for the RL (PPO) agents, to qualitatively contrast their behavior in the same episode. Consistent with the aggregate statistics, we observe that Blind collides with obstacles and follows walls, while Depth is the most efﬁcient. See the supplement and the video for more example trajectories. Generalization across datasets. Our ﬁndings so far are that RL (PPO) agents signiﬁcantly outperform SLAM [20]. This prompts our second question – are these ﬁndings dataset speciﬁc or do learned agents generalize across datasets? We report exhaustive comparisons in Figure 5 – speciﬁcally, average SPL for all combinations of {train, test} × {Matterport3D, Gibson} for all agents {Blind, RGB, RGBD, Depth }. Rows indicate (agent, train set) pair, columns indicate test set. We ﬁnd a number of interesting trends. First, nearly all agents suffer a drop in performance when trained on one dataset and tested on another, e.g. RGBD Gibson→Gibson 0.70 vs RGBD Gibson→Matterport3D 0.53 (drop of 0.17). RGB and RGBD agents suffer a signiﬁcant performance degradation, while the Blind agent is least affected (as we would expect). Second, we ﬁnd a potentially counter-intuitive trend – agents trained on Gibson consistently outperform their coun- terparts trained on Matterport3D, even when evaluated on Matterport3D. We believe the reason is the previously noted observation that Gibson scenes are smaller and episodes are shorter (lower GDSP) than Matterport3D. Gibson agents are trained on ‘easier’ episodes and encounter positive reward more easily during random exploration, thus bootstrapping learning. Consequently, for a ﬁxed computation budget Gib- son agents are stronger universally (not just on Gibson). This ﬁnding suggests that visual navigation agents could beneﬁt from curriculum learning. These insights are enabled by the engineering of Habitat, which made these experiments as simple as a change in the evaluation dataset name. 6. Habitat Challenge No battle plan ever survives contact with the enemy. Helmuth Karl Bernhard von Moltke Challenges drive progress. The history of AI sub-ﬁelds indicates that the formulation of the right questions, the creation of the right datasets, and the coalescence of commu- nities around the right challenges drives scientiﬁc progress. Our goal is to support this process for embodied AI. Habitat Challenge is an autonomous navigation challenge that aims to benchmark and advance efforts in goal-directed visual navigation. One difﬁculty in creating a challenge around embodied AI tasks is the transition from static predictions (as in passive perception) to sequential decision making (as in sensori- motor control). In traditional ‘internet AI’ challenges (e.g. ImageNet [10], COCO [18], VQA [4]), it is possible to re- lease a static testing dataset and ask participants to simply upload their predictions on this set. In contrast, embodied AI tasks typically involve sequential decision making and agent- driven control, making it infeasible to pre-package a testing dataset. Essentially, embodied AI challenges require partici- pants to upload code not predictions. The uploaded agents can then be evaluated in novel (unseen) test environments. Challenge infrastructure. We leverage the frontend and challenge submission process of the EvalAI platform, and build backend infrastructure ourselves. Participants in Habi- tat Challenge are asked to upload Docker containers [19] with their agents via EvalAI. The submitted agents are then evaluated on a live AWS GPU-enabled instance. Speciﬁcally, contestants are free to train their agents however they wish (any language, any framework, any infrastructure). In or- der to evaluate these agents, participants are asked to derive from a base Habitat Docker container and implement a spe- ciﬁc interface to their model – agent’s action taken given an observation from the environment at each step. This docker- ized interface enables running the participant code on new environments. More details regarding the Habitat Challenge held at CVPR 2019 are available at the https://aihabitat. org/challenge/ website. In a future iteration of this challenge we will introduce three major differences designed to both reduce the gap between simulation and reality and to increase the difﬁculty of the task. – In the 2019 challenge, the relative coordinates specifying the goal were continuously updated during agent movement – essentially simulating an agent with perfect localization and heading estimation (e.g. an agent with an idealized GPS+Compass). However, high-precision localization in indoor environments can not be assumed in realistic settings – GPS has low precision indoors, (visual) odometry may be noisy, SLAM-based localization can fail, etc. Hence, we will investiage only providing to the agent a ﬁxed relative coordinate for the goal position from the start location. – Likewise, the 2019 Habitat Challenge modeled agent actions (e.g. forward, turn 10◦left,...) deter- ministically. However in real settings, agent intention (e.g. go forward 1m) and the result rarely match perfectly – actuation error, differing surface materials, and a myriad of other sources of error introduce signiﬁcant drift over a long trajectory. To model this, we introduce a noise model acquired by benchmarking a real robotic platform [22]. Visual sensing is an excellent means of combating this “dead-reckoning” drift and this change allows participants to study methodologies that are robust to and can correct for this noise. – Finally, we will introduce realistic models of sensor noise for RGB and depth sensors – narrowing the gap between perceptual experiences agents would have in simulation and reality. We look forward to supporting the community in estab- lishing a benchmark to evaluate the state-of-the-art in meth- ods for embodied navigation agents. 7. Future Work We described the design and implementation of the Habi- tat platform. Our goal is to unify existing community efforts and to accelerate research into embodied AI. This is a long- term effort that will succeed only by full engagement of the broader research community. Experiments enabled by the generic dataset support and the high performance of the Habitat stack indicate that i) learning-based agents can match and exceed the perfor- mance of classic visual navigation methods when trained for long enough and ii) learned agents equipped with depth sensors generalize well between different 3D environment datasets in comparison to agents equipped with only RGB. Feature roadmap. Our near-term development roadmap will focus on incorporating physics simulation and enabling physics-based interaction between mobile agents and ob- jects in 3D environments. Habitat-Sim’s scene graph representation is well-suited for integration with physics en- gines, allowing us to directly control the state of individual objects and agents within a scene graph. Another planned avenue of future work involves procedural generation of 3D environments by leveraging a combination of 3D reconstruc- tion and virtual object datasets. By combining high-quality reconstructions of large indoor spaces with separately re- constructed or modelled objects, we can take full advantage of our hierarchical scene graph representation to introduce controlled variation in the simulated 3D environments. Lastly, we plan to focus on distributed simulation settings that involve large numbers of agents potentially interacting with one another in competitive or collaborative scenarios. Acknowledgments. We thank the reviewers for their help- ful suggestions. The Habitat project would not have been possible without the support and contributions of many in- dividuals. We are grateful to Mandeep Baines, Angel Xuan Chang, Alexander Clegg, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Xin- lei Chen, Wojciech Galuba, Georgia Gkioxari, Daniel Gor- don, Leonidas Guibas, Saurabh Gupta, Jerry (Zhi-Yang) He, Rishabh Jain, Or Litany, Joel Marcey, Dmytro Mishkin, Mar- cus Rohrbach, Amanpreet Singh, Yuandong Tian, Yuxin Wu, Fei Xia, Deshraj Yadav, Amir Zamir, and Jiazhi Zhang for their help. Licenses for referenced datasets. Gibson: https://storage.googleapis. com/gibson_material/Agreement%20GDS% 2006-04-18.pdf Matterport3D: http://kaldir.vc.in.tum.de/ matterport/MP_TOS.pdf. References [1] Phil Ammirato, Patrick Poirson, Eunbyung Park, Jana Košecká, and Alexander C Berg. A dataset for developing and benchmarking active vision. In ICRA, 2017. [2] Peter Anderson, Angel X. Chang, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Alexey Dosovitskiy, Saurabh Gupta, Vladlen Koltun, Jana Kosecka, Jitendra Malik, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Manolis Savva, and Amir Roshan Zamir. On evaluation of embodied naviga- tion agents. arXiv:1807.06757, 2018. [3] Peter Anderson, Qi Wu, Damien Teney, Jake Bruce, Mark Johnson, Niko Sünderhauf, Ian Reid, Stephen Gould, and Anton van den Hengel. Vision-and-language navigation: In- terpreting visually-grounded navigation instructions in real environments. In CVPR, 2018. [4] Stanislaw Antol, Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Margaret Mitchell, Dhruv Batra, C. Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. VQA: Visual Question Answering. In ICCV, 2015. [5] Iro Armeni, Ozan Sener, Amir R. Zamir, Helen Jiang, Ioannis Brilakis, Martin Fischer, and Silvio Savarese. 3D semantic parsing of large-scale indoor spaces. In CVPR, 2016. [6] Alex Bewley, Jessica Rigley, Yuxuan Liu, Jeffrey Hawke, Richard Shen, Vinh-Dieu Lam, and Alex Kendall. Learning to drive from simulation without real world labels. In ICRA, 2019. [7] Simon Brodeur, Ethan Perez, Ankesh Anand, Florian Golemo, Luca Celotti, Florian Strub, Jean Rouat, Hugo Larochelle, and Aaron C. Courville. HoME: A household multimodal environment. arXiv:1711.11017, 2017. [8] Angel Chang, Angela Dai, Thomas Funkhouser, Maciej Hal- ber, Matthias Niessner, Manolis Savva, Shuran Song, Andy Zeng, and Yinda Zhang. Matterport3D: Learning from RGB- D data in indoor environments. In International Conference on 3D Vision (3DV), 2017. [9] Abhishek Das, Samyak Datta, Georgia Gkioxari, Stefan Lee, Devi Parikh, and Dhruv Batra. Embodied Question Answer- ing. In CVPR, 2018. [10] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Fei-Fei Li. ImageNet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In CVPR, 2009. [11] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional trans- formers for language understanding. arXiv:1810.04805, 2018. [12] David Donoho. 50 years of data science. In Tukey Centennial Workshop, 2015. [13] Saurabh Gupta, James Davidson, Sergey Levine, Rahul Suk- thankar, and Jitendra Malik. Cognitive mapping and planning for visual navigation. In CVPR, 2017. [14] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In CVPR, 2016. [15] Jemin Hwangbo, Joonho Lee, Alexey Dosovitskiy, Dario Bellicoso, Vassilios Tsounis, Vladlen Koltun, and Marco Hutter. Learning agile and dynamic motor skills for legged robots. Science Robotics, 2019. [16] Noriyuki Kojima and Jia Deng. To learn or not to learn: Analyzing the role of learning for navigation in virtual envi- ronments. arXiv:1907.11770, 2019. [17] Eric Kolve, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Daniel Gordon, Yuke Zhu, Abhinav Gupta, and Ali Farhadi. AI2-THOR: An interactive 3D environment for visual AI. arXiv:1712.05474, 2017. [18] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James Hays, Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Dollár, and C. Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft COCO: Common objects in context. In ECCV, 2014. [19] Dirk Merkel. Docker: Lightweight Linux containers for con- sistent development and deployment. Linux Journal, 2014. [20] Dmytro Mishkin, Alexey Dosovitskiy, and Vladlen Koltun. Benchmarking classic and learned navigation in complex 3D environments. arXiv:1901.10915, 2019. [21] Raúl Mur-Artal and Juan D. Tardós. ORB-SLAM2: An open-source SLAM system for monocular, stereo and RGB-D cameras. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 33(5), 2017. [22] Adithyavairavan Murali, Tao Chen, Kalyan Vasudev Alwala, Dhiraj Gandhi, Lerrel Pinto, Saurabh Gupta, and Abhinav Gupta. Pyrobot: An open-source robotics framework for re- search and benchmarking. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.08236, 2019. [23] Xavier Puig, Kevin Ra, Marko Boben, Jiaman Li, Tingwu Wang, Sanja Fidler, and Antonio Torralba. VirtualHome: Sim- ulating household activities via programs. In CVPR, 2018. [24] Manolis Savva, Angel X. Chang, Alexey Dosovitskiy, Thomas Funkhouser, and Vladlen Koltun. MINOS: Mul- timodal indoor simulator for navigation in complex environ- ments. arXiv:1712.03931, 2017. [25] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Rad- ford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy optimization algo- rithms. arXiv:1707.06347, 2017. [26] Linda Smith and Michael Gasser. The development of em- bodied cognition: Six lessons from babies. Artiﬁcial Life, 11(1-2), 2005. [27] Shuran Song, Fisher Yu, Andy Zeng, Angel X Chang, Mano- lis Savva, and Thomas Funkhouser. Semantic scene comple- tion from a single depth image. In CVPR, 2017. [28] Julian Straub, Thomas Whelan, Lingni Ma, Yufan Chen, Erik Wijmans, Simon Green, Jakob J. Engel, Raul Mur-Artal, Carl Ren, Shobhit Verma, Anton Clarkson, Mingfei Yan, Brian Budge, Yajie Yan, Xiaqing Pan, June Yon, Yuyang Zou, Kim- berly Leon, Nigel Carter, Jesus Briales, Tyler Gillingham, Elias Mueggler, Luis Pesqueira, Manolis Savva, Dhruv Batra, Hauke M. Strasdat, Renzo De Nardi, Michael Goesele, Steven Lovegrove, and Richard Newcombe. The Replica dataset: A digital replica of indoor spaces. arXiv:1906.05797, 2019. [29] Yi Wu, Yuxin Wu, Georgia Gkioxari, and Yuandong Tian. Building generalizable agents with a realistic and rich 3D environment. arXiv:1801.02209, 2018. [30] Fei Xia, Amir R. Zamir, Zhiyang He, Alexander Sax, Jiten- dra Malik, and Silvio Savarese. Gibson env: Real-world perception for embodied agents. In CVPR, 2018. [31] Claudia Yan, Dipendra Misra, Andrew Bennnett, Aaron Wals- man, Yonatan Bisk, and Yoav Artzi. CHALET: Cornell house agent learning environment. arXiv:1801.07357, 2018. A. Habitat Platform Details As described in the main paper, Habitat consists of the following components: • Habitat-Sim: a ﬂexible, high-performance 3D simulator with conﬁgurable agents, multiple sensors, and generic 3D dataset handling (with built-in sup- port for Matterport3D [8], Gibson [30], and other datasets). Habitat-Sim is fast – when rendering a realistic scanned scene from the Matterport3D dataset, Habitat-Sim achieves several thousand frames per second (fps) running single-threaded, and can reach over 10,000 fps multi-process on a single GPU. • Habitat-API: a modular high-level library for end- to-end development of embodied AI – deﬁning embod- ied AI tasks (e.g. navigation [2], instruction follow- ing [3], question answering [9]), conﬁguring embodied agents (physical form, sensors, capabilities), training these agents (via imitation or reinforcement learning, or via classic SLAM), and benchmarking their perfor- mance on the deﬁned tasks using standard metrics [2]. Habitat-API currently uses Habitat-Sim as the core simulator, but is designed with a modular abstrac- tion for the simulator backend to maintain compatibility over multiple simulators. Key abstractions. The Habitat platform relies on a num- ber of key abstractions that model the domain of embodied agents and tasks that can be carried out in three-dimensional indoor environments. Here we provide a brief summary of key abstractions: • Agent: a physically embodied agent with a suite of Sensors. Can observe the environment and is capable of taking actions that change agent or environment state. • Sensor: associated with a speciﬁc Agent, capable of returning observation data from the environment at a speciﬁed frequency. • SceneGraph: a hierarchical representation of a 3D environment that organizes the environment into re- gions and objects which can be programmatically ma- nipulated. • Simulator: an instance of a simulator backend. Given actions for a set of conﬁgured Agents and SceneGraphs, can update the state of the Agents and SceneGraphs, and provide observations for all active Sensors possessed by the Agents. These abstractions connect the different layers of the platform. They also enable generic and portable speciﬁcation of embodied AI tasks. Habitat-Sim. The architecture of the Habitat-Sim back- end module is illustrated in Figure 6. The design of this module ensures a few key properties: • Memory-efﬁcient management of 3D environment re- sources (triangle mesh geometry, textures, shaders) en- suring shared resources are cached and reused. • Flexible, structured representation of 3D environments using SceneGraphs, allowing for programmatic ma- nipulation of object state, and combination of objects from different environments. • High-efﬁciency rendering engine with multi-attachment render pass to reduce overhead for multiple sensors. • Arbitrary numbers of Agents and corresponding Sensors that can be linked to a 3D environment by attachment to a SceneGraph. The performance of the simulation backend surpasses that of prior work operating on realistic reconstruction datasets by a large margin. Table 3 reports performance statistics on a test scene from the Matterport3D dataset. Single-thread performance reaches several thousand frames per second (fps), while multi-process operation with several simulation backends can reach over 10,000 fps on a single GPU. In addition, by employing OpenGL-CUDA interoperation we enable direct sharing of rendered image frames with ML frameworks such as PyTorch without a measurable impact on performance as the image resolution is increased (see Figure 7). Habitat-API. The second layer of the Habitat platform (Habitat-API) focuses on creating a general and ﬂex- ible API for deﬁning embodied agents, tasks that they may carry out, and evaluation metrics for those tasks. When de- signing such an API, a key consideration is to allow for easy extensibility of the deﬁned abstractions. This is particularly important since many of the parameters of embodied agent tasks, speciﬁc agent conﬁgurations, and 3D environment setups can be varied in interesting ways. Future research is likely to propose new tasks, new agent conﬁgurations, and new 3D environments. The API allows for alternative simulator backends to be used, beyond the Habitat-Sim module that we imple- mented. This modularity has the advantage of allowing incor- poration of existing simulator backends to aid in transitioning from experiments that previous work has performed using legacy frameworks. The architecture of Habitat-API is illustrated in Figure 8, indicating core API functionality and functionality implemented as extensions to the core. Above the API level, we deﬁne a concrete embodied task such as visual navigation. This involves deﬁning a speciﬁc dataset conﬁguration, specifying the structure of episodes (e.g. number of steps taken, termination conditions), training curriculum (progression of episodes, difﬁculty ramp), and evaluation procedure (e.g. test episode sets and task metrics). An example of loading a pre-conﬁgured task (PointNav) and stepping through the environment with a random agent is shown in the code below. 5Note: The semantic sensor in Matterport3D requires using additional 3D meshes with signiﬁcantly more geometric complexity, leading to re- duced performance. We expect this to be addressed in future versions, leading to speeds comparable to RGB + depth. Mesh Sensor ResourceManager Texture Material Shader SceneNode SceneGraph SceneManager Simulator Agent Figure 6: Architecture of Habitat-Sim main classes. The Simulator delegates management of all resources related to 3D environments to a ResourceManager that is responsible for loading and caching 3D environment data from a variety of on-disk formats. These resources are used within SceneGraphs at the level of individual SceneNodes that represent distinct objects or regions in a particular Scene. Agents and their Sensors are instantiated by being attached to SceneNodes in a particular SceneGraph. GPU→CPU→GPU GPU→CPU GPU→GPU Sensors / number of processes 1 3 5 1 3 5 1 3 5 RGB 2,346 6,049 7,784 3,919 8,810 11,598 4,538 8,573 7,279 RGB + depth 1,260 3,025 3,730 1,777 4,307 5,522 2,151 3,557 3,486 RGB + depth + semantics5 378 463 470 396 465 466 464 455 453 Table 3: Performance of Habitat-Sim in frames per second for an example Matterport3D scene (id 17DRP5sb8fy) on a Xeon E5-2690 v4 CPU and Nvidia Titan Xp GPU, measured at a frame resolution of 128x128, under different frame memory transfer strategies and with a varying number of concurrent simulator processes sharing the GPU. ‘GPU-CPU-GPU’ indicates passing of rendered frames from OpenGL context to CPU host memory and back to GPU device memory for use in optimization, ‘GPU-CPU’ only reports copying from OpenGL context to CPU host memory, whereas ‘GPU-GPU’ indicates direct sharing through OpenGL-CUDA interoperation. Figure 7: Performance of Habitat-Sim under different sensor frame memory transfer strategies for increasing image resolution. We see that ‘GPU->GPU’ is unaffected by image resolution while other strategies degrade rapidly. B. Additional Dataset Statistics In Table 5 we summarize the train, validation and test split sizes for all three datasets used in our experiments. We also report the average geodesic distance along the shortest path (GDSP) between starting point and goal position. As noted in the main paper, Gibson episodes are signiﬁcantly shorter than Matterport3D ones. Figure 9 visualizes the episode distributions over geodesic distance (GDSP), Euclidean dis- tance between start and goal position, and the ratio of the two (an approximate measure of complexity for the episode). We again note that Gibson episodes have more episodes with shorter distances, leading to the dataset being overall easier than the Matterport3D dataset. import habitat # Load embodied AI task (PointNav) # and a pre-specified virtual robot config = habitat.get_config(config_file= "pointnav.yaml") env = habitat.Env(config) observations = env.reset() # Step through environment with random actions while not env.episode_over: observations = \ env.step(env.action_space.sample()) Habitat-Sim Environment Episodes Dataset Task Navigation Embodied QA Simulator API Matterport3D EQA Replica EQA use inherit Sensor API Matterport3D PointNav Replica PointNav Episode Gibson PointNav RL Environment RL baselines SLAM Imitation learning . . . core API extensions and implementations Baselines Figure 8: Architecture of Habitat-API. The core functionality deﬁnes fundamental building blocks such as the API for interacting with the simulator backend and receiving observations through Sensors. Concrete simulation backends, 3D datasets, and embodied agent baselines are implemented as extensions to the core API. Dataset scenes (#) episodes (#) average GDSP (m) Matterport3D 58 / 11 / 18 4.8M / 495 / 1008 11.5 / 11.1 / 13.2 Gibson 72 / 16 / 10 4.9M / 1000 / 1000 6.9 / 6.5 / 7.0 Table 4: Statistics of the PointGoal navigation datasets that we precompute for the Matterport3D and Gibson datasets: total number of scenes, total number of episodes, and average geodesic distance between start and goal positions. Each cell reports train / val / test split statistics. Dataset Min Median Mean Max Matterport3D 18 90.0 97.1 281 Gibson 15 60.0 63.3 207 Table 5: Statistics of path length (in actions) for an oracle which greedily ﬁts actions to follow the negative of geodesic distance gradient on the PointGoal navigation validation sets. This provides expected horizon lengths for a near-perfect agent and contextualizes the decision for a max-step limit of 500. C. Additional Experimental Results In order to conﬁrm that the trends we observe for the experimental results presented in the paper hold for much larger amounts of experience, we scaled our experiments to 800M steps. We found that (1) the ordering of the visual inputs stays Depth > RGBD > RGB > Blind; (2) RGB is consistently better than Blind (by 0.06/0.03 SPL on Gibson/Matterport3D), and (3) RGBD outperforms SLAM on Matterport3D (by 0.16 SPL). C.1. Analysis of Collisions To further characterize the behavior of learned agents during navigation we plot the average number of collisions in Figure 10. We see that Blind incurs a much larger number of collisions than other agents, providing evidence for ‘wall-following’ behavior. Depth-equipped agents have the lowest number of collisions, while RGB agents are in between. C.2. Noisy Depth To investigate the impact of noisy depth measurements on agent performance, we re-evaluated depth agents (without re-training) on noisy depth generated using a simple noise model: iid Gaussian noise (µ = 0, σ = 0.4) at each pixel in inverse depth (larger depth = more noise). We observe a drop of 0.13 and 0.02 SPL for depth-RL and SLAM on Gibson-val (depth-RL still outperforms SLAM). Note that SLAM from [20] utilizes ORB-SLAM2, which is quite robust to noise, while depth-RL was trained without noise. If we increase σ to 0.1, depth-RL gets 0.12 SPL whereas SLAM suffers catastrophic failures. D. Gibson Dataset Curation We manually curated the full dataset of Gibson 3D tex- tured meshes [30] to select meshes that do not exhibit signif- icant reconstruction artifacts such as holes or texture quality issues. A key issue that we tried to avoid is the presence of Figure 9: Statistics of PointGoal navigation episodes. From left: distribution over Euclidean distance between start and goal, distribution over geodesic distance along shortest path between start and goal, and distribution over the ratio of geodesic to Euclidean distance. 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Avg. Collisions Gibson Blind RGB RGBD Depth MP3D Blind RGB RGBD Depth Figure 10: Average number of collisions during successful navi- gation episodes for the different sensory conﬁgurations of the RL (PPO) baseline agent on test set episodes for the Gibson and Matter- port3D datasets. The Blind agent experiences the highest number of collisions, while agents possessing depth sensors (Depth and RGBD) have the fewest collisions on average. holes or cracks in ﬂoor surfaces. This is particularly problem- atic for navigation tasks as it divides seemingly connected navigable areas into non-traversable disconnected compo- nents. We manually annotated the scenes (using the 0 to 5 quality scale shown in Figure 11) and only use scenes with a rating of 4 or higher, i.e., no holes, good reconstruction, and negligible texture issues to generate the dataset episodes. E. Reproducing Experimental Results Our experimental results can be reproduced us- ing the Habitat-API (commit ec9557a) and Habitat-Sim (commit d383c20) repositories. The code for running experiments is present under the folder habitat-api/habitat_baselines. Below is the shell script we used for our RL experiments: # Note: parameters in {} are experiment specific. # Note: use 8, 6 processes for Gibson, MP3D # respectively. python habitat_baselines/train_ppo.py \ --sensors {RGB_SENSOR,DEPTH_SENSOR} \ --blind {0,1} --use-gae --lr 2.5e-4 \ --clip-param 0.1 --use-linear-lr-decay \ --num-processes {8,6} --num-steps 128 \ --num-mini-batch 4 --num-updates 135000 \ --use-linear-clip-decay \ For running SLAM please refer to habitat- api/habitat_baselines/slambased. F. Example Navigation Episodes Figure 12 visualizes additional example navigation episodes for the different sensory conﬁgurations of the RL (PPO) agents that we describe in the main paper. Blind agents have the lowest performance, colliding much more frequently with the environment and adopting a ‘wall hug- ging’ strategy for navigation. RGB agents are less prone to collisions but still struggle to navigate to the goal posi- tion successfully in some cases. In contrast, depth-equipped agents are much more efﬁcient, exhibiting fewer collisions, and navigating to goals more successfully (as indicated by the overall higher SPL values). 0: critical reconstruction artifacts, holes, or texture issues 1: big holes or signiﬁcant texture issues and reconstruction artifacts 2: big holes or signiﬁcant texture issues, but good reconstruction 3: small holes, some texture issues, good reconstruction 4: no holes, some texture issues, good reconstruction 5: no holes, uniform textures, good reconstruction Figure 11: Rating scale used in curation of 3D textured mesh reconstructions from the Gibson dataset. We use only meshes with ratings of 4 or higher for the Habitat Challenge dataset. Gibson Blind SPL = 0.00 RGB SPL = 0.45 RGBD SPL = 0.82 Depth SPL = 0.88 Blind SPL = 0.00 RGB SPL = 0.29 RGBD SPL = 0.49 Depth SPL = 0.96 Figure 12: Additional navigation example episodes for the different sensory conﬁgurations of the RL (PPO) agent, visualizing trials from the Gibson and MP3D val sets. A blue dot and red dot indicate the starting and goal positions, and the blue arrow indicates ﬁnal agent position. The blue-green-red line is the agent’s trajectory. Color shifts from blue to red as the maximum number of allowed agent steps is approached. MP3D Blind SPL = 0.00 RGB SPL = 0.40 RGBD SPL = 0.92 Depth SPL = 0.98 Figure 12: Additional navigation example episodes for the different sensory conﬁgurations of the RL (PPO) agent, visualizing trials from the Gibson and MP3D val sets. A blue dot and red dot indicate the starting and goal positions, and the blue arrow indicates ﬁnal agent position. The blue-green-red line is the agent’s trajectory. Color shifts from blue to red as the maximum number of allowed agent steps is approached.