 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 RT-1: ROBOTICS TRANS FOR MER 
 
 FOR REAL-WORLD CONTROL AT SCALE 
 1 Anthony Brohan∗,Noah Brown∗,Justice Carbajal∗,Yevgen Chebotar∗,Joseph Dabis∗,
 Chelsea Finn∗,Keerthana Gopalakrishnan∗,Karol Hausman∗,Alex Herzog†,Jasmine Hsu∗,
 Julian Ibarz∗,Brian Ichter∗,Alex Irpan∗,Tomas Jackson∗,Sally Jesmonth∗,Nikhil JJoshi∗,
 Ryan Julian∗,Dmitry Kalashnikov∗,Yuheng Kuang∗,Isabel Leal∗,Kuang-Huei Lee‡,Sergey Levine∗,
 Yao Lu∗,Utsav Malla∗,Deeksha Manjunath∗,Igor Mordatch‡,Ofir Nachum‡,Carolina Parada∗,
 Jodilyn Peralta∗,Emily Perez∗,Karl Pertsch∗,Jornell Quiambao∗,Kanishka Rao∗,Michael Ryoo∗,
 Grecia Salazar∗,Pannag Sanketi∗,Kevin Sayed∗,Jaspiar Singh∗,Sumedh Sontakke‡,Austin Stone∗,
 Clayton Tan∗,Huong Tran∗,Vincent Vanhoucke∗,Steve Vega∗,Quan Vuong∗,Fei Xia∗,Ted Xiao∗,
 Peng Xu∗,Sichun Xu∗,Tianhe Yu∗,Brianna Zitkovich∗ 
 ∗Roboticsat Google,†Everyday Robots,‡Google Research,Brain Team 
 ABSTRACT 
 Bytransferringknowledge from large,diverse,task-agnostic data sets,modernma-
 chinelearningmodels can solvespecificdownstream task sei the rzero-shotor with
 small task-specific data setstoahighlevelofper for mance. While this capability
 has been demonstrated in other fields such as computer vision, natural language
 processing or speech recognition, it remains to be shown in robotics, where the
 generalization capabilities of the models are particularly critical due to the dif-
 ficulty of collecting real-world robotic data. We argue that one of the keys to
 the success of such general robotic models lies with open-ended task-agnostic
 training,combined with high-capacityarchitectures that can absorballofthedi-
 verse, robotic data. In this paper, we present a model class, dubbed Robotics
 Trans for mer, that exhibits promising scalable model properties. We verify our
 conclusionsinastudyofdifferent model classes and the irabilitytogeneralizeas
 a function of the data size, model size, and data diversity based on a large-scale
 datacollectiononrealrobotsper for mingreal-worldtasks. Theproject’swebsite
 andvideos can befoundatrobotics-trans for mer 1.github.io 
 1 INTRODUCTION 
 End-to-end robotic learning, with either imitation or rein for cement, typically involves collecting
 task-specific data in either single-task (Kalashnikov et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018) or multi-
 task (Kalashnikov et al., 2021 b; Jang et al., 2021) settings that are narrowly tailored to the tasks
 that the robotshouldperform. Thisworkflowmirrors the classicapproachtosupervisedlearningin
 otherdomains,suchascomputervision and NLP,where task-specific data setswouldbecollected,
 labeled, and deployed to solve individual tasks, with little interplay between the tasks themselves.
 Recentyears have seenatrans for mationinvision,NLP,ando the rdomains,away from siloed,small-
 scale datasets and models and towards large, general models pre-trained on broad, large datasets.
 Thekeysto the successofsuch model slie with open-ended task-agnostictraining,combined with
 high-capacityarchitectures that can absorballof the knowledgepresentinlarge-scale data sets. Ifa
 model can “sponge up” experience to learn general patterns in language or perception, then it can
 bring them to bear on individual tasks more efficiently. While removing the need for large task-
 specific datasets is appealing generally in supervised learning, it is even more critical in robotics,
 where data setsmightrequireengineering-heavyautonomousoperationorexpensivehum and emon-
 strations. Wethere for eask: canwetrainasingle,capable,largemulti-taskbackbonemodelon data
 consistingofawidevarietyofrobotictasks? Anddoessucha model enjoy the benefitsobservedin
 otherdomains,exhibitingzero-shotgeneralizationto new tasks,environments,andobjects?
 Buildingsuch model sinroboticsisnoteasy. Althoughrecentyears have seenseverallargemulti-
 taskrobotpoliciesproposedin the literature(Reedetal.,2022;Jangetal.,2021),such model soften
 havelimitedbreadthofreal-worldtasks,aswith Gato(Reedetal.,2022),orfocusontrainingtasks
 ratherthangeneralizationto new tasks,aswithrecentinstructionfollowingmethods(Shridh are tal.,
 2021;2022),orattaincomparativelylowerper for manceon new tasks(Jangetal.,2021).
 1 Authorslistedinalphabeticalorder.Contributionsin Appendix A. 
 Correspondingemails:{keerthanapg,kanishkarao,karolhausman}@google.com.
 1 
 3202 
 gu A 
 11 
 ]OR.sc[ 
 2 v 71860.2122:vi Xra 

 Instruction 
 Pick apple from top drawer and place on counter Mode Arm Base 
 Images 
 Fi LM 
 Efficient Net Token Learner Trans for mer 
 Preprint 
 … 
 RT-1 
 3 Hz 
 β 
 )γ+1( 
 Action 
 · 
 + 
 Instruction 
 Pick apple from top drawer and place on counter Mode Arm Base 
 Images 
 Fi LM 
 Efficient Net Token Learner Trans for mer 
 … 
 RT-1 
 3 Hz 
 β 
 )γ+1( 
 Action 
 · 
 + 
 (a)RT-1 takesimagesandnaturallanguageinstructionsandoutputsdiscretized base and armactions. Despite
 itssize(35 Mparameters),itdoesthisat 3 Hz,duetoitsefficientyethigh-capacityarchitecture:a Fi LM(Perez
 et al., 2018) conditioned Efficient Net (Tan & Le, 2019), a Token Learner (Ryoo et al., 2021), and a Trans-
 former(Vaswanietal.,2017). 
 (b)RT-1’slarge-scale,real-worldtraining(130 kdemonstrations)andevaluation(3000 real-worldtrials)show
 impressivegeneralization,robustness,andabilitytolearn from diverse data.
 Figure 1: Ahigh-leveloverviewof RT-1’sarchitecture,dataset,andevaluation.
 Thetwomainchallengesliein assemblingtheright data set and designing the right model. While
 data collection and curation is often the “unsung hero” of many large-scale machine learning
 projects(Rad for detal.,2021;Rameshetal.,2021),thisisespeciallytrueinrobotics,where data sets
 areoftenrobot-specifi can dga the redmanually(Dasarietal.,2019;Ebertetal.,2021). Aswe will
 showin our evaluations,goodgeneralizationrequires data sets that combineboth scale and breadth,
 coveringavarietyoftasks and settings. Atthesametime, the task sin the datasetshould besuffi-
 ciently well-connected to enable generalization, such that the model can discover the patterns be-
 tweenstructuralsimilartasks and per for mnewtasks that combinethosepatternsinnovelways. We
 utilizea data set that wegatheredover the courseof 17 months with afleetof 13 robots,containing
 ∼130 kepisodes and over 700 tasks,andweablatevariousaspectsof this datasetin our evaluation.
 The second challenge lies in the design of the model itself. Effective robotic multi-task learning
 requiresahighcapacity model,and Trans for mer(Vaswanietal.,2017)modelsexcelin this regard,
 particularlywhenitisnecessarytolearnmany task sconditioned,asin our case,onlanguageinstruc-
 tions. However,roboticcontrollersmustalsobeefficientenoughtoruninrealtime,whichpresents
 amajorchallenge for Trans for mersinparticular. Weproposeanovelarchitecture that wecall RT-1
 (Robotics Trans for mer 1),whichbyencodinghigh-dimensionalinputs and outputs,includingcam-
 eraimages,instructionsandmotorcomm and sintocompacttokenrepresentationstobeusedby the
 Trans for mer,allows for efficientinferenceatruntimetomakereal-timecontrolfeasible.
 Ourcontributionis the RT-1 modelandexperiments with this model onalarge and broad data setof
 real-worldrobotictasks. Ourexperimentsnotonlydemonstrate that RT-1 canexhibitsignifi can tly
 improvedgeneralization and robustnesscomp are dtopriortechniques,butalsoevaluate and ablate
 manydesignchoicesinboththe model and inthecompositionof the trainingset. Ourresultsshow
 that RT-1 canper for mover 700 traininginstructionsat 97%successrate,and can generalizeto new
 tasks, distractors, and backgrounds 25%, 36% and 18% better than the next best baseline, respec-
 tively. Thislevelofper for manceallowsustoexecuteverylong-horizon task sin the Say Can(Ahn
 etal.,2022)framework,withasmanyas 50 stages. Wefur the rshow that RT-1 canincorporate data
 fromsimulationoreveno the rrobottypes,retainingper for manceon the originaltasks and improving
 generalizationto new scenarios. Ashortoverviewof RT-1 capabilitiesispresentedin Fig.1 b 2.
 2 Helperrobotsshownin Fig.1-5 arefrom Everyday Robots 
 2 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 2 RELATED WORK 
 
 
 A number of recent works have proposed Trans for mer-based policies for robotic control. As in
 RT-1, several works use language commands processed with Trans for mers as a robust framework
 for specifying and generalizing to new tasks (Zhang & Chai, 2021; Pashevich et al., 2021; Silva
 et al., 2021; Jang et al., 2021; Ahn et al., 2022; Nair et al., 2022). Our work takes the application
 of Trans for mersastepfurther and treats the mappingoflanguage and visionobservationstorobot
 actions as a sequence modelling problem, using a Trans for mer to learn this mapping. This idea
 is directly inspired by successes in game-playing (Chen et al., 2021; Lee et al., 2022 a) as well
 as simulated robot navigation (Fang et al., 2019), locomotion (Janner et al., 2021; Gupta et al.,
 2022),andmanipulation(Jiangetal.,2022)environments. Wenote that severalof the seworksgo
 beyond only text conditioning and use Trans for mers to also generalize across robot morphologies
 (e.g.,Guptaetal.(2022))ando the rmodalities for taskspecifications(e.g.,Jangetal.(2021);Jiang
 etal.(2022)). Theseextensions are promisingfuturedirections for RT-1. 
 Beyond Trans for mer-basedpolicies,thefocusof our workisongeneralizable and robustreal-world
 roboticmanipulationat scale.Existingworksonreal-world Trans for mer-basedroboticmanipulation
 focus on efficiently learning tasks from a set of demonstrations per task (Shridhar et al., 2022).
 Behavior Trans for mer (Shafiullah et al., 2022) and Gato (Reed et al., 2022) advocate for training
 a single model on large-scale robotic and non-robotic datasets. However, these works are limited
 intheirreal-worldrobotictasks;e.g.,Gatolearnseffectivelyasingle task(coloredblockstacking)
 withoutevaluatinggeneralizationto new task soravarietyofreal-worldsettings. Onthetechnical
 side,ourworkexamineshow Trans for mer-basedpolicies can bebuiltsoastocombinehighcapacity
 andgeneralization with the computationalefficiencynecessary for real-timecontrol.
 While the useofhigh-capacity Trans for mer model stolearnroboticcontrolpoliciesisafairlyrecent
 innovation, robotics has a long history of multi-task and language-conditioned learning, and RT-1
 buildson the sefoundations. Asignifi can tbodyofworkdeals with learningpolicies and predictive
 models for robotic grasping (Saxena et al., 2006; Lenz et al., 2015; Pinto & Gupta, 2016; Gupta
 et al., 2018; Viereck et al., 2017), with the aim of generalizing to new objects. Prior works have
 sought to address robotic language underst and ing through pipelined approaches that combine lan-
 guageparsing,vision,androboticcontrol(Mac Mahonetal.,2006;Koll are tal.,2010;Tellexetal.,
 2011)and with end-to-endapproaches(Meietal.,2016;Stepputtisetal.,2020;Lynch&Sermanet,
 2020;Ahnetal.,2022). Multi-taskroboticlearninghasalso been approached from the perspective
 of learning to reach goals (Chung et al., 2015; Raffin et al., 2019; Jurgenson et al., 2020; Huang
 etal.,2020), aswellaslearningpolicies that can per for mtasksinadiscretesetorsomeo the rpa-
 rameterizedform(Deisenro the tal.,2014;Devinetal.,2017;Foxetal.,2019;Kalashnikovetal.,
 2021 a). A number of prior works in robotics have also focused on collecting datasets containing
 demonstrationsortrials that illustrateavarietyofdifferenttasks(Sharmaetal.,2018;Dasarietal.,
 2019; Yu et al., 2020; Singh et al., 2020; James et al., 2020). Our work adds further evidence in
 supportof the powerofmulti-task,language-conditionedroboticlearning,presentingexperimental
 results at a larger scale and with a greater variety of behaviors, objects, and scenes and proposing
 newarchitectures and designchoices that enableroboticlearningatasignifi can tlylarger scale.
 3 PRELIMINARIES 
 Robotlearning. Weaimtolearnrobotpoliciestosolvelanguage-conditionedtasks from vision.
 Formally,weconsiderasequentialdecision-makingenvironment. Attimestept = 0,thepolicyπ
 ispresented with alanguageinstructioni and aninitialimageobservationx . Thepolicyproduces
 0 
 an action distribution π(· | i,x ) from which an action a is sampled and applied to the robot.
 0 0 
 Thisprocesscontinues,with the policyiterativelyproducingactionsa bysampling from alearned
 t 
 distributionπ(·|i,{x }t )andapplyingthoseactionsto the robot. Theinteractionendswhena
 j j=0 
 terminationconditionisachieved. The full interactioni,{(x ,a )}T from from the startingstep
 j j j=0 
 t = 0 to terminating step T is referred to as an episode. At the end of an episode, the agent will
 begivenabinaryrewardr ∈ {0,1}indicatingwhethertherobotper for med the instructioni. The
 goalistolearnapolicyπ thatmaximizes the averagereward,inexpectationoveradistributionof
 instructions,startingstatesx ,andtransitiondynamics. 
 0 
 3 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Trans for mers. RT-1 usesa Trans for mer(Vaswanietal.,2017)toparameterizethepolicyπ. Gener-
 allyspeaking,a Trans for merisasequence model mappinganinputsequence{ξ }H toanoutput
 h h=0 
 sequence{y }K usingcombinationsofself-attentionlayers and fully-connectedneuralnetworks.
 k k=0 
 While Transformers were originallydesigned for textsequences,whereeachinputξ andoutputy
 j k 
 represents a text token, they have been extended to images (Parmar et al., 2018) as well as other
 modalities (Lee et al., 2022 a; Reed et al., 2022). As detailed in the next section, we parameterize
 π by first mapping inputs i,{x }t to a sequence {ξ }H and action outputs a to a sequence
 j j=0 h h=0 t 
 {y }K beforeusinga Trans for mertolearn the mapping{ξ }H →{y }K . 
 k k=0 h h=0 k k=0 
 Imitation learning. Imitation learning methods train the policy π on a dataset D of demonstra-
 tions (Pomerleau, 1988; Zhang et al., 2018; Jang et al., 2021). Specifically, we assume access to
 adataset D = {(i(n),{(x(n),a(n))}T(n))}N ofepisodes,allofwhich are successful(i.e.,havea
 t t t=0 n=0 
 finalrewardof 1). Welearnπ usingbehavioralcloning(Pomerleau,1988), whichoptimizesπ by
 minimizing the negativelog-likelihoodofactionsa given the images and languageinstructions.
 t 
 4 SYSTEM OVERVIEW 
 The goal of this work is to build and demonstrate a general robot learning system that can ab-
 sorblargeamountsof data and generalizeeffectively. we usemobilemanipulators from Everyday
 Robots 3, which have a 7 degree-of-freedom arm, a two-fingered gripper, and a mobile base (see
 Fig.2(d)). Tocollect data and evaluate our method,we usethreekitchen-basedenvironments: two
 real office kitchens and a training environment modelled off these real kitchens. The training en-
 vironment, shown in Fig. 2 (a), consists of partial counters and is constructed for large scale data
 collection. Thetworealenvironments,shownin Fig.2(b,c),havesimilarcountertopsto the train-
 ingenvironment,butvaryinlighting,background,and full kitchengeometry(e.g.,theremaybea
 cabinetinsteadofadrawerorasinkmaybevisible). Weevaluate the per for manceof our policies
 across the sedifferentenvironments,measuring the policy’sper for mance and abilitytogeneralize.
 Ourtraining data consistsofhuman-provideddemonstrations,andweannotateeachepisodewitha
 textualdescriptionoftheinstruction that the robotjustper for med. Theinstructionsusuallycontain
 averb and oneormorenounsdescribing the targetobjects. Togroup the seinstructionstogether,we
 split the mintoanumberofskills(e.g.,verbssuchas“pick”,“open”or“placeupright”)andobjects
 (e.g., nounssuchas“coke can”, “apple”, or“drawer”). Wedescribe the detailsof our data collec-
 tionstrategyat scalein Sec.5.2. Ourlargest data setcontainsover 130 kindividualdemonstrations
 constitutingover 700 distinct task instructionsusingalargevarietyofobjects(see Fig.2(f)). We
 describethedetailsof the datacollectedin Sec.5.2. 
 One of the main contributions of our system is the network architecture, Robotics Trans for mer 1
 (RT-1),anefficient model that can absorblargeamountsof data,effectivelygeneralize,andoutput
 actions at real-time rates for practical robotic control. RT-1 takes a short sequence of images and
 a natural language instruction as input and outputs an action for the robot at each time step. To
 this end, the architecture (shown in Figure 1 a) leverages several elements: first the images and
 text are processedviaan Image Netpretrainedconvolutionalnetwork(Tan&Le,2019)conditioned
 on a pretrained embedding of the instruction via Fi LM (Perez et al., 2018), followed by a Token
 Learner(Ryooetal.,2021)tocomputeacompactsetoftokens,andfinallya Trans for mer(Vaswani
 etal.,2017)toattendover the setokens and producediscretizedactiontokens. Theactionsconsist
 ofsevendimensions for the armmovement(x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw, openingof the gripper), three
 dimensions for basemovement(x,y,yaw)andadiscretedimensiontoswitchbetweenthreemodes:
 controlling the arm, the base, or terminating the episode. RT-1 performs closed-loop control and
 comm and sactionsat 3 Hzuntilitei the ryieldsa“terminate”actionorhitsapre-settimesteplimit.
 5 RT-1: ROBOTICS TRANS FOR MER 
 Inthissection,wedescribehowwetokenize the images,text,andactions,and the ndiscuss the RT-1
 modelarchitecture.Wethendescribehowweattain the runtimespeedrequired for real-timecontrol.
 Lastly,wedescribethe data collectionprocedure and the skills and instructionsin our data set.
 3 everydayrobots.com 
 4 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 2:(a)Robotclassroomwherewecollectdataat scale;(b)arealofficekitchen,oneof the two
 realisticenvironmentsused for evaluation(named Kitchen 1 intherestof the paper);(c)adifferent
 officekitchenused for evaluation(named Kitchen 2 intherestof the paper);(d)mobilemanipulator
 usedthroughout the paper; (e)asetofobjectsused for mostof the skillstoexp and skilldiversity;
 (f)amorediversesetofobjectsusedmostlytoexp and objectdiversityof the pickingskill.
 
 5.1 MODEL 
 
 Our model isbuiltona Trans for merarchitecture(Vaswanietal.,2017)andtakesahistoryofimages
 and task descriptionasinput and directlyoutputstokenizedactions,asshownin Fig.1 aandindetail
 in Fig. 3. In the following we describe the components of the model, following the top-to-bottom
 orderin Fig.3. Moredetailon model selectionat scale are providedin Appendix C.3.
 Instruction and imagetokenization. The RT-1 architecturereliesona data-efficient and compact
 tokenizationofimages and languageinstruction. RT-1 tokenizesahistoryof 6 imagesbypassing
 images through an Image Net pretrained Efficient Net-B 3 (Tan & Le, 2019) model, which takes 6
 imagesofresolution 300×300 asinput and outputsaspatialfeaturemapofshape 9×9×512 from
 the final convolutional layer. Unlike Reed et al. (2022), we do not patchify the images into visual
 tokenspriortofeeding the mtoour Trans for merbackbone.Weinsteadflatten the outputfeaturemap
 from the Efficient Netinto 81 visualtokenswhich are passedontothelaterlayersof the network.
 To include the language instruction, we condition the image tokenizer on the natural language in-
 structionin the formofapretrainedlanguageembedding,allowingextractionof task-relevantimage
 featuresearlyon and improvingper for manceof RT-1. Theinstructionisfirstembeddedvia Univer-
 sal Sentence Encoder(Ceretal.,2018). Thisembeddingis the nusedasinputtoidentity-initialized
 Fi LM layers (Perez et al., 2018) added to the pretrained Efficient Net to condition the image en-
 coder. Normally,insertinga Fi LMlayerinto the interiorofapretrainednetworkwoulddisrupt the
 intermediate activations and negate the benefit of using pretrained weights. To overcome this, we
 initialize the weights of the dense layers (f and h ) which produce the Fi LM affine transforma-
 c C 
 tiontozero,allowing the Fi LMlayertoinitiallyactasanidentity and preserve the functionof the
 pretrainedweights. Wefind that identity-initialized Fi LMalsoproducesbetterresultswhentraining
 withan Efficient Netinitialized from scratch,without Image Netpretraining,butitdoesnotsurpass
 theinitializationdescribedabove. Thearchitectureof the imagetokenizerispresentedin Fig.3.
 RT-1’simage and instructiontokenizationvia Fi LMEfficient Net-B 3 isatotalof 16 Mparameters,
 with 26 layersof MBConvblocks and Fi LMlayers,whichoutput 81 vision-languagetokens.
 Token Learner. Tofurthercompress the numberoftokens that RT-1 needstoattendover and thus
 speed up inference, RT-1 uses Token Learner (Ryoo et al., 2021). Token Learner is an element-
 wise attention module that learns to map a large number of tokens into a much smaller number
 of tokens. This allows us to soft-select image tokens based on their information, passing only the
 importanttokencombinationsto the subsequent Trans for merlayers. Theinclusionof Token Learner
 subsamples the 81 visualtokens that comeoutof the pre-trained Fi LM-Efficient Netlayerstojust 8
 finaltokens that are the npassedonto our Trans for merlayers. 
 5 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 γ) β 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 · + … 
 1 γ) β 
 1 γ) β 
 1 γ) β 
 Figure 3: Thearchitecturediagramof RT-1. Theinstructionistrans for medintoa USEembedding
 and used to condition a pre-trained Efficient Net via Fi LM layers. The resulting vision-language
 tokens are reduced by the Token Learner and fed into a decoder-only Trans for mer, which outputs
 tokenizedactions. 
 Trans for mer. These 8 tokensper-image are thenconcatenated with theotherimagesin the history,
 forming 48 totaltokens(withaddedpositionencoding)tobefedinto the Trans for merbackboneof
 RT-1. The Trans for merisadecoder-onlysequence model with 8 self-attentionlayers and 19 Mtotal
 parameters that outputsactiontokens. 
 Action tokenization. To tokenize actions, each action dimension in RT-1 is discretized into 𝜸𝜷
 256 bins. As mentioned previously, the action dimensions we consider include seven variables
 for the arm movement (x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw, opening of the gripper), three variables for base
 movement(x,y,yaw)andadiscretevariabletoswitchbetweenthreemodes: controllingarm,base
 orterminating the episode. Foreachvariable,wemap the targettooneof the 256 bins,where the
 bins are uni for mlydistributedwithin the boundsofeachvariable. 
 Loss. We use a standard categorical cross-entropy entropy objective and causal masking that was
 utilizedinprior Trans for mer-basedcontrollers(Reedetal.,2022;Leeetal.,2022 a).
 Inference speed. In contrast to many applications of large models, such as natural language or
 imagegeneration,oneof the uniquerequirements for amodel that needstorunonrealrobotsinreal
 time is fast and consistent inference speed. Given the human speeds of executing the instructions
 6 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 consideredin this work(whichwemeasuredtobein the 2−4 secsrange),wewant the modeltobe
 notsignifi can tlyslowerthan that. Basedon our experiments this requirementcorrespondstoatleast
 3 Hzcontrolfrequency and theresultinginferencetimebudget for the model,giveno the rlatencies
 inthesystem,tobelessthan 100 ms. 
 This requirement limits the size of the model that we can use. We further explore the impact of
 modelsizeoninferencespeedin the experiments. Weemploytwotechniquestospeedupinference:
 (i) reduce the number of tokens generated by a pre-trained Efficient Net model by using Token-
 Learner(Ryooetal.,2021), (ii)computethesetokensonlyonce and reusethem for the following
 windows that overlap for the futureinferences. Bothoftheseallowustospeedup the modelinfer-
 enceby 2.4 and 1.7 times,respectively. Additionaldetailson model inferencearein Appendix C.1.
 
 5.2 DATA 
 
 Skill Count Description Example Instruction 
 Pick Object 130 Lifttheobjectoff the surface pickicedtea can 
 Move Object Near Object 337 Movethefirstobjectnear the second movepepsi can nearrxbarblueberry
 Place Object Upright 8 Placeanelongatedobjectupright placewaterbottleupright
 Knock Object Over 8 Knockanelongatedobjectover knockredbull can over 
 Open Drawer 3 Openanyof the cabinetdrawers open the topdrawer 
 Close Drawer 3 Closeanyof the cabinetdrawers close the middledrawer 
 Place Objectinto Receptacle 84 Placeanobjectinto are ceptacle placebrownchipbagintowhitebowl
 Pick Object from Receptacle 162 Pickanobjectup from alocation and then pickgreenjalapenochipbag from paper
 and Placeon the Counter placeiton the counter bowl and placeoncounter 
 Section 6.3 and 6.4 tasks 9 Skillstrained for realistic,longinstructions open the largeglassjarofpistachios
 pullnapkinoutofdispenser 
 grabscooper 
 Total 744 
 Table 1: The list of skills collected for RT-1 together with their descriptions and example instruc-
 tions. 
 Our goal is to build a system that exhibits high per for mance, generalization to new tasks, and ro-
 bustnesstodistractors and backgrounds. Wethere for eaimtocollectalarge,diverse data setofrobot
 trajectories that includesmultipletasks,objects and environments. Ourprimary data setconsistsof
 ∼130 krobotdemonstrations,collected with afleetof 13 robotsover the courseof 17 months. We
 conducted this large-scale data collectioninaseriesofofficekitchensegments,which were fertoas
 robotclassrooms,shownin Fig.2. Moredetailson data collectionarein Appendix C.2.
 Skills and instructions. While the definition of a task remains inconsistent in the literature, in
 this work we count the number of language instructions that the system can perform, where an
 instructioncorrespondstoaverbsurroundedbyoneormultiplenouns,suchas“placewaterbottle
 upright”,“move the coke can tothegreenchipbag”or“open the drawer”. RT-1 isabletoperform
 over 700 languageinstructionsinmultiplerealisticofficekitchenenvironments that weevaluate and
 describeindetailin the experiments. Inordertogroup the evaluations and drawconclusionson the
 per for manceof the system,wegrouptheinstructionsby the verbsusedinthem,which were ferto
 asskills. Amoredetailedlistofinstructionsisshownin Table 1,withexamples and the numberof
 instructionsperskill. 
 Thecurrentsetofskillsincludespicking,placing,opening and closingdrawers,gettingitemsin and
 outdrawers,placingelongateditemsup-right,knocking the mover,pullingnapkins and openingjars.
 Theskills were chosentodemonstratemultiplebehaviors with manyobjects(seenin Fig.2(e))to
 testaspectsof RT-1 suchasgeneralizationto new instructions and abilitytoper for mmanytasks.We
 thengreatlyexpanded the objectdiversity for the“pick”skilltomakesure that the skillsgeneralize
 to varied objects (see the expanded set of objects in Fig. 2(f)). The skills were further expanded
 while we conducted the ablations to include instructions added in the last row of Table 1, which
 were used for the experiments described in Sec. 6.4 and 6.3. These additional skills focused on
 realistic,long-horizoninstructionsinanofficekitchen. Theentireprocessofaddingtasks and data
 is described in the Appendix C.4. Since we do not make any assumptions about particular skills
 when adding new instructions, the system is easily extendable, and we can continuously provide
 morediverse data toimproveitscapabilities. 
 7 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 6 EXPERIMENTS 
 
 Ourexperimentsseektoanswer the followingquestions: 
 
 1. Can an RT-1 learn to perform a large number of instructions, as well as to generalize in
 zeroshotto new tasks,objects and environments? (Section 6.2) 
 2. Canwepushtheresulting model evenfur the rbyincorporatingheterogeneous data sources,
 suchassimulated data ordata from differentrobots? (Section 6.3) 
 3. Howdovariousmethodsgeneralizetolong-horizonroboticscenarios? (Section 6.4)
 4. How do generalization metrics change with varying amounts of data quantity and data
 diversity? (Section 6.5) 
 5. What are theimportant and practicaldecisionsinthedesignof the model and howdothey
 affectper for mance and generalization? (Appendix Section D.4) 
 Throughout this sectionwe will comp are totwo base linestateof the artarchitectures, Gato(Reed
 etal.,2022)and BC-Z(Jangetal.,2021).Importantlybothof the searetrainedon our data described
 in detail in Sec. 5.2 (which is an important part of our system) since the original models in these
 publicationswouldnotexhibitgeneralizationpropertiesrequired for ourevaluationtasks. Gatois,
 similarly to RT-1, based on a Trans for mer architecture, but varies from RT-1 in multiple aspects.
 First,itcomputesimagetokens with out the notionoflanguage and eachimagetokenembeddingis
 computed separately for each image patch, as opposed to early language fusion and global image
 embedding in our model. Second, it does not use a pre-trained text embedding to encode the lan-
 guagestring. Italsodoesnotincludeinferencetimeconsiderations that are necessary for realrobots
 asdiscussedin Sec.5.1 suchas Token Learner and the removalofauto-regressiveactions.Inorderto
 run Gatoonrealrobotsatahighenoughfrequency,wealsolimitthesizeof the modelcomp are dto
 theoriginalpublication,whichwas 1.2 Bparameters(resultinginonrobotinferencetimeof 1.9 s),
 to be of similar size to RT-1 (37 M parameters for Gato vs. 35 M for RT-1). BC-Z is based on a
 Res Netarchitecture,andwasusedin Say Can(Ahnetal.,2022). BC-Zdiffers from RT-1 inthatitis
 afeed for ward model that doesnotuseprevioustimesteps,anditusescontinuousactionsra the rthan
 discrete action tokens. In addition to the original BC-Z model size, we also comp are our method
 toalargerversionof BC-Zthathasasimilarnumberofparametersto RT-1 andrefertoitas BC-Z
 XL. We study and analyze how each of these design decisions changes per for mance in Appendix
 Sections D.4 and D.5. 
 Weevaluate the successrateinexperimentstomeasureper for manceontraininginstructions, gen-
 eralization to unseen instructions, robustness to backgrounds and distractors, and per for mance in
 long-horizon scenarios, as detailed below. Throughout this section, we evaluate our approach and
 baselines with over 3000 real-world trials, making one of the largest scale evaluation of a robot
 learningsystemto-date. 
 6.1 EXPERIMENTALSETUP 
 As mentioned in Section 4, we evaluate RT-1 with a set of mobile manipulators from Everyday
 Robotsinthreeenvironments:tworealofficekitchens and atrainingenvironment model ledoffthese
 realkitchens. Thetrainingenvironment, shownin Fig.2(a), consistsofpartialcounterswhile the
 tworealenvironments,shownin Fig.2(b,c),havesimilarcountertopsto the trainingenvironment,
 butvaryinlighting,background,and full kitchengeometry(e.g.,theremaybeacabinetinsteadof
 a drawer or a sink may be visible). The policies are evaluated for per for mance on training tasks
 as well as generalization to new tasks, robustness to unseen environments, and per for mance when
 chainedtoge the rforlong-horizontasks,asdetailedbelow. 
 Seen task per for mance.Toevaluateper for manceonseeninstructions,weevaluateper for manceon
 instructionssampled from the trainingset. Note,however,that this evaluationstillinvolvesvarying
 theplacementofobjects and otherfactorsof the setup(e.g.,timeofday,robotposition),requiring
 the skills to generalize to realistic variability in the environment. In all, we test over 200 tasks in
 thisevaluation: 36 forpickingobjects,35 forknockingobjects,35 forplacingthingsupright,48 for
 movingobjects,18 for open ing and closingvariousdrawers,and 36 forpickingoutof and placing
 objectsintodrawers. 
 Unseen task sgeneralization. Toevaluategeneralizationtounseentasks,wetest 21 novel,unseen
 instructions. These instructions are distributed across skills and objects. This ensures that at least
 8 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 someinstancesofeachobject and skill were presentinthetrainingsetbut the ywill becombinedin
 novelways. Forexample,if“pickup the apple”isheldout,thenthereareo the rtraininginstructions
 thatinclude the apple. Thelistofallunseeninstructions can befoundin the Appendix D.1.
 Robustness. Toevaluaterobustness, weperform 30 real-worldtasks for distractorrobustness and
 22 tasks for background robustness. The background robustness was tested by evaluating in new
 kitchens(which have differentlighting and backgroundvisuals)and with differentcountersurfaces
 (e.g., a patterned table cloth). Example configurations of the robustness evaluation scenarios are
 depictedin Fig.4. 
 Long-horizonscenarios. Wealsoevaluategeneralizationtomorerealisticlong-horizonscenarios,
 whicheachrequireexecutingasequenceofskills.Thegoalof this evaluationistocombinemultiple
 generalization axes such as new tasks, objects, environments and test the overall generalization
 capabilitiesinrealisticsettings.Theseevaluationsconsistof 15 long-horizoninstructionsintworeal
 kitchens, which require executing sequences of skills consisting of ∼ 10 distinct steps, with each
 stepofroughlycomparablescopeas the traininginstructions.Thesesteps are obtainedautomatically
 fromhigherlevelinstructions,suchas“howwouldyouthrowawayalltheitemson the table?” by
 using the Say Cansystem(Ahnetal.,2022),asdescribedindetailin Section 6.4 and Appendix D.3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 4: Evaluation scenarios for distractors (first row), from left to right: easy (0-5 distractors),
 medium (9 distractors), hard (9 distractors and occluded object); background (second row), from
 lefttoright: originalenvironment,patternedtablecloth,newkitchen;andrealisticscenariosin the
 realkitchen(thirdrow),generalizationlevels from lefttoright: L 1,L 2 and L 3.
 6.2 CANRT-1 LEARNTOPER FOR MALARGENUMBEROFINSTRUCTIONS,ANDTO 
 GENERALIZETO NEW TASKS,OBJECTS AND ENVIRONMENTS? 
 
 To answer our first question, we analyze the overall per for mance, generalization, and robustness
 capabilities of RT-1 compared to previously proposed models. Specifically, we comp are to the
 model architectures used by Gato (Reed et al., 2022) and BC-Z (Jang et al., 2021), as well as a
 largerversionof BC-Z,which were fertoas BC-ZXL.Note, however, thatallmodels are trained
 on the same data as RT-1, and the evaluation only compares the model architectures, not the task
 sets,datasets,oroverallroboticsystems. Thecapabilitiesof RT-1 aredeterminedtoalargeextent
 by the dataset and task set, which we believe improves signifi can tly over prior works (e.g. BC-Z
 uses 100 tasks and the original Gato model trainsastacking task with variousshapes),andthus this
 comparison should be viewed as rather favorable to the prior models, which also benefit from the
 largeanddiverse data set and taskset that wecollected. 
 The results are shown in Table 2. Across each category, we find that RT-1 outperforms the prior
 models signifi can tly. On seen tasks, RT-1 is able to perform 97% of the more than 200 instruc-
 9 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model Seen Tasks Unseen Tasks Distractors Backgrounds 
 Gato(Reedetal.,2022) 65 52 43 35 
 BC-Z(Jangetal.,2021) 72 19 47 41 
 BC-ZXL 56 43 23 35 
 RT-1(ours) 97 76 83 59 
 
 
 Table 2: Overall per for mance of RT-1 and baselines across seen tasks, generalization to unseen
 tasks,androbustnesstodistractors and backgrounds. 
 
 tionssuccessfully,whichis 25%morethan BC-Zand 32%morethan Gato. Onunseentasks,RT-1
 showsitiscapableofgeneralizingtonovelinstructions,per for ming 76%ofthenever-before-seen
 instructions,24%morethan the nextbest base line. Whilesuchgeneralizationtonovelinstructions
 ismadepossibleduetonaturallanguageconditioningof the policy, asthepolicyisabletounder-
 stand new combinations of previously seen concepts, all of the baselines are also conditioned on
 naturallanguage and inprincipleenjoy the samebenefits. Wefur the rablatedifferentcomponents
 of RT-1 inthenextsectiontobetterunderst and whataspectsof our methodcontribute the mostto
 thisdifference. Ondistractors and backgrounds,wefind that RT-1 isquiterobust,success full yexe-
 cuting 83%ofthedistractorrobustnesstasks and 59%ofthebackgroundrobustnesstasks(36%and
 18%higherthan the nextbestalternative,respectively). Overall,wefind that RT-1 hashighgeneral
 per for mance,whileexhibitingimpressivedegreesofgeneralization and robustness. Weshowexam-
 pletrajectoriesof the RT-1 agentincludinginstructions that coverdifferentskills,environments and
 objectsin Fig.5. Wealsopresentadditionaltrajectoryexamples for differentgeneralizationtestsin
 the Appendix,whichincludebackgrounds(Fig.10),anddistractors(Fig.12). 
 Generalization to realistic instructions. Next, we test whether our method generalizes enough
 across all the different axes that we evaluated previously to be deployed in a real kitchen, which
 poses multiple distribution shifts all at once such as new tasks combinations, object distractors as
 wellasanovelenvironment. 
 To evaluate our algorithm in realistic scenarios in a real kitchen, we construct task sequences to
 accomplish a number of realistic goals. The robot restocks several snacks in drawers, tidies up
 knocked over condiment bottles and closes drawers left open by humans, prepares a snack with
 an orange and a napkin and fetches lost sunglasses and an octopus toy from several places in the
 kitchen. The detailed instructions used in these scenarios are listed in the Appendix D.1. The
 officekitcheninvolvesadramaticshift from the trainingenvironment and wecategorize task sacross
 thesescenarios with varyinglevelsofgeneralization: L 1 forgeneralizationto the newcounter-top
 layout and lighting conditions, L 2 for additionally generalization to unseen distractor objects, L 3
 foradditionalgeneralizationtodrastically new task settings, new task objectsorobjectsinunseen
 locations such as near a sink. The three levels that correspond to the three tasks of restocking,
 preparingasnack and fetchingalostobjectintherealkitchen are depictedin the lastrowof Fig.4.
 Exampletrajectories for differentlevels are presentedin the Appendixin Fig.11.
 Wereport the per-tasksuccessrateintheserealisticscenariosalong with the varyinggeneralization
 levelsin Table 3 andfind RT-1 tobe the mostrobustonalllevels. Gatogeneralizesfairlywellat the
 first level but it performs signifi can tly drops for the more difficult generalization scenarios. BC-Z
 andits XLequivalentper for mfairlywellat L 2 level and betterthan Gatoat L 3 but the yarestillnot
 atthegeneralizationlevelof RT-1. 
 6.3 CANWEPUSHTHERESULTING MODEL FUR THE RBYINCORPORATINGHETEROGENEOUS 
 DATAS OUR CESSUCHASSIMULATIONOR DATA FROM DIFFERENTROBOTS? 
 Next,weexplore the limitsof RT-1 forutilizinghighlyheterogeneous data.Wedemonstratehow RT-
 1 canincorporateandlearn from vastlydifferent data sources and improve from such data with out
 sacrificingitsoriginal-tasksper for manceacross the varied task sinherentin this data.Tothisend,we
 conducttwoexperiments: (1)RT-1 trainedandtestedonbothreal data and simulation data and(2)
 10 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 “pick water bottle 
 from the bottom 
 drawer and put it 
 on the counter” 
 
 “move sponge to 
 green jalapeno 
 chips” 
 
 “place red bull 
 can in middle 
 drawer” 
 
 “pull napkin out 
 of dispenser” 
 
 
 “place coke can 
 upright” 
 
 
 “open top 
 drawer” 
 
 
 “pick apple from 
 bowl” 
 
 Figure 5: Exampleevaluationtrajectories for RT-1 acrossvariousinstructions.
 
 
 
 
 Generalization Scenario Levels 
 Models All L 1 L 2 L 3 
 Gato Reedetal.(2022) 30 63 25 0 
 BC-ZJangetal.(2021) 45 38 50 50 
 BC-ZXL 55 63 75 38 
 RT-1(ours) 70 88 75 50 
 
 Table 3: Realistic generalization scenarios: we comp are model success rate in a realistic Google kitchen
 scenariosacrossthreelevelsofgeneralization:L 1 forgeneralizationto the newcounter-toplayout and lighting
 conditions,L 2 foradditionallygeneralizationtounseendistractorobjects,L 3 foradditionallygeneralization
 todrastically new task settings,new task objectsorinunseenlocationslikenearasink.
 
 
 RT-1 trainedacrosslarge data setsofdifferenttasks, originallycollectedbydifferentrobots. More
 informationoneachisprovidedin Appendix D.2. 
 Absorbingsimulation data. Table 4 shows the abilityof RT-1, and base lines,toabsorbbothreal
 andsimulation data. Totest this,wetakeallof the realdemonstration data butwealsoprovidead-
 
 11 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 60% 
 50% 
 Real Objects Sim Objects(notseeninreal) 
 40% 
 Seen Skill Seen Skill Unseen Skill 
 Models Training Data w/Objects w/Objects w/Objects 30% 
 RT-1 Real Only 92 23 7 20% 
 RT-1 Real+Sim 90(-2) 87(+64) 33(+26) 
 10% 
 0% 
 Sim-seen Objects Sim-seen Objects Real Tasks
 w/ Skills w/o Skills 
 ot 
 derapmo C 
 eta R 
 sseccu S 
 ylno 
 lae R 
 Real +Sim Data 
 +64% 
 +26% 
 -2% 
 Table 4: Experimental results for incorporating simulation data in RT-1. Adding simulation data
 doesnotimpact the per for manceonrealobjects,whilesignifi can tlyimprovingrealper for manceon
 objects that wereonlyintroducedinsimulation(+64%). Italsoimprovesreal-worldgeneralization
 onsimulatedobjectsused with skillsseenonlyin the realworld(+26%),e.g. “move Xto Y”where
 Xonlyappe are dinsimulated“pick X”task. 
 ditionalsimulation data thatincludesobjects that therobothasneverseenin the realworld. Specifi-
 cally,wespecifydifferentgeneralizationscenarios: forseenskills with realobjects the training data
 hasrealdataof that instruction(i.e.,per for manceonseentasks),forseenskills with simobjects the
 training data hassimdataof that instruction(e.g. “pickupasimobject”,whichwaspresentinsim),
 and for unseenskills with simobjectsthetraining data hassimdataof that objectbut the reareno
 examplesoftheinstructiondescribingtheskill with thatobjectei the rinsimorinreal(e.g.,“move
 asimobjecttoapple”,eventhough the robothasonlypracticedinpicking that simobject and not
 movingitnearo the robjects). Allevaluations are doneintherealworldbuttolimit the numberof
 instructionsevaluated,wefocusonpick and move-toskills. 
 We find in Table 4 that for RT-1, we do not lose per for mance adding simulation data compared
 to the Real Only dataset. We do however, see a significant increase in per for mance (from 23% to
 87%)onobjects and tasksseenonlyinsimulation, toapproximatelytheper for manceof the those
 in real, demonstrating an impressive degree of domain transfer. We also see a significant increase
 inper for manceonunseeninstructions from 7%to 33%;impressivegiven the objectinquestionhas
 never been seen in real and the instruction never seen at all. Overall, we find that RT-1 is able to
 efficientlyabsorb new data,even from averydifferentdomain. 
 Absorbing data from different robots. To push the data absorption limits of RT-1, we conduct
 an additional set of experiments where we combine two data sources that originate from different
 robots: Kuka IIWA as well as the Everyday Robots mobile manipulators used in the experiments
 sofar. The Kuka data containsall the successfulexamplescollectedin QT-Opt(Kalashnikovetal.,
 2018),whichcorrespondsto 209 kepisodes,where the robotwasindiscriminatelygraspingobjects
 inabin(seeanexampleofa Kukaepisodein Table.5). Totestwhether RT-1 caneffectivelyabsorb
 thesetwoverydifferent data sets,which were fertoas the standard“Classroomeval”,aswellas the
 per for mance on the newly constructed tasks that reflect the bin-picking setup present in the Kuka
 data,which were fertoas the“Bin-pickingeval”(see Fig.6). 
 Wewouldliketoemphasizethedifficultyof this settingbynoting the majordifferencesbetween the
 datasets. Notonly are therobots that collected the datadifferentinappearance and actionspace,but
 alsotheenvironment the yweredeployedinhasdifferentappearance and dynamics. Inaddition the
 QT-Opt data presentsacompletelydifferentactiondistribution–itwascollectedbyan RLagentas
 opposedtohum and emonstrationspresentin our data set. 
 The results are presented in Table 5. We observe that the model that mixes the RT-1 data and the
 Kuka data hasonlyaminimaldecreasein the originaltasks’per for mance(i.e. Classroomeval),i.e.
 2%. Even more importantly, in the Bin-picking eval, we observe that the model trained on multi-
 robot data per for msat 39%comp are dto the 22%ofthe model that wastrainedonlyon the RT-1 data.
 Thisisa 17%per for mancedifference(almost 2 x). Additionally,RT-1 trainedon Kukabin-picking
 data and evaluated on the bin-picking tasks with the Everyday Robots (EDR) robot achieves 0%
 per for mance, confirming that it is difficult to transfer a behavior from another robot morphology.
 However, mixing the data from both robots allows RT-1 to infer the correct actions of the EDR
 12 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 6: In Table 5,RT-1 istrained with data from tworoboticsplatforms and learnstogeneralize
 acrossthem. 
 
 17.5% 
 15.0% 
 12.5% Models Training Data Classroomeval Bin-pickingeval
 10.0% 
 RT-1 Kukabin-picking data+EDRdata 90(-2) 39(+17) 
 7.5% 
 RT-1 EDRonly data 92 22 
 5.0% RT-1 Kukabin-pickingonly data 0 0
 2.5% 
 0.0% 
 2.5% 
 Bin-picking Eval Classroom Eval
 yln O 
 RDE 
 ot 
 derapmo C 
 eta R 
 sseccu S 
 EDR +Kuka Data 
 +17% 
 -2% 
 Table 5: Experimental results for mixing data from two different robots. Incorporating Kuka bin-
 picking data from QT-Opt(Kalashnikovetal.,2018)in RT-1 minimallyimpacts the standardclass-
 roomevaluationper for mance and resultsinalmosta 2 ximprovementingeneralizationto the Bin-
 pickingevaluation(thatissimilarto the setupin the Kuka data)onthe Everyday Robotsmanipulator.
 Thisdemonstratesaneffectivetransferacrosstwodifferentrobotmorphologies.
 robot even when faced with the states observed by Kuka robots. This is achieved without explicit
 demonstrationsofbin-pickingon EDRrobot and bytakingadvantageofpastexperiencescollected
 by Kukarobots. Theseresultsindicate that RT-1’sabsorptionpropertiesalsoinclude the abilityto
 acquire new skills through observing other robots’ experiences and present an exciting avenue of
 futureworkwherewecombinemanymoremulti-robot data setstoenhance the robotcapabilities.
 6.4 HOWDOVARIOUSMETHODSGENERALIZELONG-HORIZONROBOTICSCENARIOS? 
 In the next set of experiments we evaluate whether our method generalizes enough to be used in
 long-horizonrealistickitchensettings. Toanswer this question,weexecute RT-1 andvarious base-
 lineswithin the Say Can(Ahnetal.,2022)frameworkintwodifferentrealkitchens. Since Say Can
 combines many low-level instructions to perform high-level instructions, the number of possible
 high-level instructions increases combinatorially with skills, so the skill-breadth of RT-1 can be
 fullyseen(formoredetailson the Say Canalgorithmpleasereferto Ahnetal.(2022)). Thesuccess
 rateoflong-horizon task salsodecreasesexponentially with thelengthof the task,sohighsuccess
 rates in manipulation skills are particularly important. Fur the rmore, as mobile manipulation tasks
 requirebothnavigation and manipulation,thepoliciesabilitytoberobustto base positioniscrucial.
 Moredetailisprovidedin Appendix D.3. 
 Table 6 shows our results (on instructions in Appendix Table 12). Except for original Say Can, all
 methodsget 87%asplanningsuccessrate,and RT-1 performs the best,with 67%executionsuccess
 rate in Kitchen 1. Kitchen 2 constitutes a much more challenging generalization scene, since the
 Robot Classroom training scenes are modeled after Kitchen 1 (see the pictures of the kitchens in
 Fig.2). Dueto this generalizationdifficulty,Say Canwith Gatoisnotabletofinishanylonghorizon
 task, and Say Canwith BC-Zisabletoachieve asuccessrateof 13%. Theoriginal Say Can paper
 didnotevaluateper for manceina new kitchen. Surprisingly,themanipulationper for mancedoesnot
 13 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 seeavisibledrop from Kitchen 1 to Kitchen 2 for our method. Inthesupplementaryvideo,weshow
 that this enablesustooperateunseendrawersin Kitchen 2,andthatwe canuse Say Can-RT 1 toplan
 andexecuteultra-longhorizontasks,withasmanyas 50 steps. 
 Say Can task sin Kitchen 1 Say Can task sin Kitchen 2 
 Planning Execution Planning Execution 
 Original Say Can(Ahnetal.,2022)∗ 73 47 - - 
 Say Canw/Gato(Reedetal.,2022) 87 33 87 0 
 Say Canw/BC-Z(Jangetal.,2021) 87 53 87 13 
 Say Canw/RT-1(ours) 87 67 87 67 
 Table 6: Say Canstylelonghorizon task sin Kitchen 1 and Kitchen 2. (*Original Say Canevalusesa
 slightlydifferentpromptso the planningsuccessrateislower.) 
 
 
 6.5 HOWDOGENERALIZATIONMETRICSCHANGE WITH VARYINGAMOUNTSOF DATA 
 QUANTITY AND DATADIVERSITY? 
 While previous works have shown the scaling abilities of Trans for mer-based models (Lee et al.,
 2022 a;Reedetal.,2022;Jiangetal.,2022)with the numberof model parameters,inmanyrobotics
 works the model size is often not the primary bottleneck, and the maximum size is limited by the
 latency requirement for running such models on real robots. Instead, in this study we focus on
 ablating the influenceof data setsize and diversity,astheyplayanimportantrolein the traditionally
 data-limited robot learning field. Since data collection is particularly expensive for real robots, it
 is important to quantify what kind of data our models need to achieve a certain per for mance and
 generalization. Thus,ourlastquestionfocuseson the scalingpropertiesof RT-1 withdifferent data
 properties. 
 Generalization 
 Models %Tasks %Data Seen Tasks All Unseen Tasks Distractors Backgrounds
 Smaller Data 
 RT-1(ours) 100 100 97 73 76 83 59 
 RT-1 100 51 71 50 52 39 59 
 RT-1 100 37 55 46 57 35 47 
 RT-1 100 22 59 29 14 31 41 
 Narrower Data 
 RT-1(ours) 100 100 97 73 76 83 59 
 RT-1 75 97 86 54 67 42 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table 7: Various data ablations of RT-1 across seen tasks, generalization to unseen tasks, and ro-
 bustnesstodistractors and backgrounds. Datadiversityhasahigherimpacton the per for mance and
 generalizationth and ataquantity. 
 
 In Table 7 we show the per for mance, generalization, and robustness of RT-1 as we decrease the
 dataset size (% data) and the dataset diversity (% tasks). To separate the axes of dataset size and
 diversity, we create smaller datasets with the same task diversity by removing data from the tasks
 with the largest data,capping the numberofexamplespertaskat 200(resultingin 51%ofthe data),
 
 14 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 100(37%ofthe data),and 50(22.5%ofthe data). Tocreateanarrow data set,weremove the tasks
 with the least data,thuskeeping 97%oftheoverall data butonly 75%ofthetasks. Aswedecrease
 dataset size, we see a general trend of decreasing per for mance and a steeper trend of decreasing
 generalization. Aswemake the datasetmorenarrow,weseemuchsteeperper for mancereductions,
 particularlyintermsofgeneralization. Infact,removing 25%ofthe task swhilekeeping 97%ofthe
 dataachievesanequivalentgeneralizationper for mancetoreducing the datasetsizebyasmuchas
 49%. Ourkeytakeawayisthus that datadiversityismoreessentialth and ataquantity.
 
 7 CONCLUSIONS, LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
 
 We presented Robotics Trans for mer 1, RT-1, a robot learning method that can effectively absorb
 largeamountsof data andscales with dataquantity and diversity. Wetrained RT-1 onalarge data set
 of demonstrations containing over 130 k episodes collected over the course of 17 months with 13
 robots. Inourbroadsetofexperiments,wedemonstrated that ourmethod that can per for mover 700
 instructionsat 97%successrate and effectivelygeneralizeto new tasks, objects and environments
 betterthanpreviouslypublished base lines. Wealsodemonstrated that RT-1 cansuccess full yabsorb
 heterogeneous data from simulationando the rrobotmorphologies with outsacrificingoriginal-tasks
 per for mance and whileimprovinggeneralizationto new scenarios.Lastly,weshowedhow this level
 ofper for mance and generalizationallowedustoexecuteverylong-horizon task sin the Say Can(Ahn
 etal.,2022)framework,withasmanyas 50 steps. 
 While RT-1 presents a promising step towards large-scale robot learning with an data-absorbent
 model, it comes with a number of limitations. First, it is an imitation learning method, which
 inheritsthechallengesof that classofapproachessuchas the fact that itmaynotbeabletosurpass
 theper for manceof the demonstrators. Second, thegeneralizationto new instructionsislimitedto
 thecombinationsofpreviouslyseenconcepts and RT-1 isnotyetabletogeneralizetoacompletely
 newmotion that hasnot been seenbefore. Lastly, ourmethodispresentedonalargebutnotvery
 dexteroussetofmanipulationtasks. Weplantocontinueextending the setofinstructions that RT-1
 enables and generalizestotoaddress this challenge. 
 Asweexplorefuturedirections for thiswork,wehopeto scale the numberofrobotskillsfasterby
 developingmethods that allownon-expertstotrain the robotviadirected data collection and model
 prompting. While the current version of RT-1 is fairly robust especially to distractor objects, its
 robustness to backgrounds and environments could be further improved by greatly increasing the
 environmentdiversity. Wealsohopetoimprove the reactionspeeds and contextretentionof RT-1
 throughscalableattention and memory. 
 Toallow the researchcommunitytobuildontopof this work,wehave open-sourced the code for RT-
 14,whichwehope will provideresearchers with avaluableres our ceforfutureresearch for scaling
 uprobotlearning. 
 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 We would like to acknowledge Aleksandra Faust, Andy Christiansen, Chuyuan Fu, Daniel Kap-
 pler,David Rendleman,Eric Jang,Jessica Gomez,Jessica Lin,Jie Tan,Josh Weaver,Justin Boyd,
 Krzysztof Choromanski,Matthew Bennice,Mengyuan Yan,Mrinal Kalakrishnan,Nik Stewart,Paul
 Wohlhart, Peter Pastor, Pierre Sermanet, Wenlong Lu, Zhen Yu Song, Zhuo Xu, and the greater
 teamsat Roboticsat Google and Everyday Robots for the irfeedback and contributions.
 REFERENCES 
 Michael Ahn,Anthony Brohan,Noah Brown,Yevgen Chebotar,Omar Cortes,Byron David,Chelsea
 Finn,Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,Karol Hausman,Alex Herzog,etal. Doas Ican,notas Isay:
 Groundinglanguageinroboticaf for dances. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2204.01691,2022.
 Daniel Cer,Yinfei Yang,Sheng-yi Kong,Nan Hua,Nicole Limtiaco,Rhomni St John,Noah Con-
 stant,Mario Guajardo-Cespedes,Steve Yuan,Chris Tar,etal. Universalsentenceencoder. ar Xiv
 preprintar Xiv:1803.11175,2018. 
 4 http://github.com/google-research/robotics_transformer 
 
 15 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Lili Chen,Kevin Lu,Aravind Rajeswaran,Kimin Lee,Aditya Grover,Misha Laskin,Pieter Abbeel,
 Aravind Srinivas,and Igor Mordatch.Decisiontrans for mer:Rein for cementlearningviasequence
 modeling. Advancesinneuralin for mationprocessingsystems,34:15084–15097,2021.
 
 Michael Jae-Yoon Chung,Abram LFriesen,Dieter Fox,Andrew NMeltzoff,and Rajesh PNRao.
 Abayesi and evelopmentalapproachtoroboticgoal-basedimitationlearning. Plo Sone,10(11):
 e 0141965,2015. 
 Sudeep Dasari, Frederik Ebert, Stephen Tian, Suraj Nair, Bernadette Bucher, Karl Schmeckpeper,
 Siddharth Singh, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Robonet: Large-scale multi-robot learning.
 In Conferenceon Robot Learning,2019. 
 Marc Peter Deisenroth, Peter Englert, Jan Peters, and Dieter Fox. Multi-task policy search for
 robotics. In 2014 IEEEinternationalconferenceonrobotics and automation(ICRA),pp.3876–
 3881.IEEE,2014. 
 Coline Devin, Abhishek Gupta, Trevor Darrell, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Learningmod-
 ularneuralnetworkpolicies for multi-task and multi-robottransfer. In 2017 IEEEinternational
 conferenceonrobotics and automation(ICRA),pp.2169–2176.IEEE,2017. 
 Miroslav Dud´ık,John Langford,and Lihong Li.Doublyrobustpolicyevaluation and learning.ar Xiv
 preprintar Xiv:1103.4601,2011. 
 Frederik Ebert, Yanlai Yang, Karl Schmeckpeper, Bernadette Bucher, Georgios Georgakis, Kostas
 Daniilidis, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridge data: Boosting generalization of robotic
 skills with cross-domain data sets. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2109.13396,2021. 
 Kuan Fang, Alexander Toshev, Li Fei-Fei, and Silvio Savarese. Scene memory trans for mer for
 embodiedagentsinlong-horizontasks.In Proceedingsof the IEEE/CVFConferenceon Computer
 Vision and Pattern Recognition,pp.538–547,2019. 
 
 Roy Fox,Ron Berenstein,Ion Stoica,and Ken Goldberg. Multi-taskhierarchicalimitationlearning
 forhomeautomation. In 2019 IEEE 15 th International Conferenceon Automation Science and
 Engineering(CASE),pp.1–8.IEEE,2019. 
 Abhinav Gupta, Adithyavairavan Murali, Dhiraj Prakashch and Gandhi, and Lerrel Pinto. Robot
 learninginhomes:Improvinggeneralization and reducing data setbias. Advancesinneuralin for-
 mationprocessingsystems,31,2018. 
 Agrim Gupta,Linxi Fan,Surya Ganguli,and Li Fei-Fei.Metamorph:Learninguniversalcontrollers
 withtrans for mers. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2203.11931,2022. 
 Josiah PHanna,Peter Stone,and Scott Niekum. Bootstrapping with models: Confidenceintervals
 foroff-policyevaluation. In Thirty-First AAAIConferenceon Artificial Intelligence,2017.
 Daniel Ho, Kanishka Rao, Zhuo Xu, Eric Jang, Mohi Khansari, and Yunfei Bai. Retina GAN:
 An object-aware approach to sim-to-real transfer, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
 2011.03148. 
 De-An Huang, Yu-Wei Chao, Chris Paxton, Xinke Deng, Li Fei-Fei, Juan Carlos Niebles, Ani-
 mesh Garg, and Dieter Fox. Motionreasoning for goal-basedimitationlearning. In 2020 IEEE
 International Conferenceon Robotics and Automation(ICRA),pp.4878–4884.IEEE,2020.
 
 Alexander Irpan, Kanishka Rao, Konstantinos Bousmalis, Chris Harris, Julian Ibarz, and Sergey
 Levine. Off-policyevaluationviaoff-policyclassification. Advancesin Neural Information Pro-
 cessing Systems,32,2019. 
 Stephen James, Zicong Ma, David Rovick Arrojo, and Andrew J Davison. RLBench: The robot
 learningbenchmark&learningenvironment. IEEERobotics and Automation Letters,5(2):3019–
 3026,2020. 
 Eric Jang,Alex Irpan,Mohi Khansari,Daniel Kappler,Frederik Ebert,Corey Lynch,Sergey Levine,
 and Chelsea Finn. Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with roboticimitationlearning. In Confer-
 enceon Robot Learning,pp.991–1002.PMLR,2021. 
 
 16 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Michael Janner,Qiyang Li,and Sergey Levine. Rein for cementlearningasonebigsequencemod-
 elingproblem. In ICML 2021 Workshopon Unsupervised Rein for cement Learning,2021.
 
 Yunfan Jiang,Agrim Gupta,Zichen Zhang,Guanzhi Wang,Yongqiang Dou,Yanjun Chen,Li Fei-
 Fei, Anima Anandkumar, Yuke Zhu, and Linxi Fan. Vima: General robot manipulation with
 multimodalprompts. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2210.03094,2022. 
 Tom Jurgenson,Or Avner,Edward Groshev,and Aviv Tamar. Sub-goaltreesaframework for goal-
 basedrein for cementlearning.In International Conferenceon Machine Learning,pp.5020–5030.
 PMLR,2020. 
 Dmitry Kalashnikov, Alex Irpan, Peter Pastor, Julian Ibarz, Alexander Herzog, Eric Jang, Deirdre
 Quillen, Ethan Holly, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Vincent Vanhoucke, et al. Scalable deep reinforce-
 mentlearning for vision-basedroboticmanipulation. In Conferenceon Robot Learning,pp.651–
 673.PMLR,2018. 
 Dmitry Kalashnikov, Jacob Varley, Yevgen Chebotar, Benjamin Swanson, Rico Jonschkowski,
 Chelsea Finn, Sergey Levine, and Karol Hausman. Mt-opt: Continuous multi-task robotic re-
 inforcementlearningat scale. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2104.08212,2021 a. 
 Dmitry Kalashnikov, Jake Varley, Yevgen Chebotar, Ben Swanson, Rico Jonschkowski, Chelsea
 Finn,Sergey Levine,and Karol Hausman. MT-opt: Continuousmulti-taskroboticrein for cement
 learningat scale. ar Xiv,2021 b. 
 Thomas Kollar,Stefanie Tellex,Deb Roy,and Nicholas Roy.Towardunderst and ingnaturallanguage
 directions. In 20105 th ACM/IEEEInternational Conferenceon Human-Robot Interaction(HRI),
 pp.259–266.IEEE,2010. 
 Kuang-Huei Lee, Ofir Nachum, Mengjiao Yang, Lisa Lee, Daniel Freeman, Winnie Xu, Sergio
 Guadarrama,Ian Fischer,Eric Jang,Henryk Michalewski,etal. Multi-gamedecisiontransform-
 ers. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2205.15241,2022 a. 
 Kuang-Huei Lee, Ted Xiao, Adrian Li, Paul Wohlhart, Ian Fischer, and Yao Lu. PI-QT-Opt: Pre-
 dictive information improves multi-task robotic rein for cement learning at scale. ar Xiv preprint
 ar Xiv:2210.08217,2022 b. 
 Ian Lenz, Honglak Lee, and Ashutosh Saxena. Deep learning for detecting robotic grasps. The
 International Journalof Robotics Research,34(4-5):705–724,2015. 
 Corey Lynch and Pierre Sermanet. Languageconditionedimitationlearningoverunstructured data.
 ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2005.07648,2020. 
 
 Matt Mac Mahon,Brian Stankiewicz,and Benjamin Kuipers. Walk the talk: Connectinglanguage,
 knowledge,andactioninrouteinstructions. Def,2(6):4,2006. 
 Hongyuan Mei,Mohit Bansal,and Matthew RWalter. Listen,attend,andwalk: Neuralmappingof
 navigationalinstructionstoactionsequences. In Thirtieth AAAIConferenceon Artificial Intelli-
 gence,2016. 
 Suraj Nair, Eric Mitchell, Kevin Chen, Silvio Savarese, Chelsea Finn, et al. Learning language-
 conditioned robot behavior from offline data and crowd-sourced annotation. In Conference on
 Robot Learning,pp.1303–1315.PMLR,2022. 
 Niki Parmar,Ashish Vaswani,Jakob Uszkoreit,Lukasz Kaiser,Noam Shazeer,Alexander Ku,and
 Dustin Tran. Image trans for mer. In International conference on machine learning, pp. 4055–
 4064.PMLR,2018. 
 Alexander Pashevich, Cordelia Schmid, and Chen Sun. Episodic trans for mer for vision-and-
 language navigation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
 Vision,pp.15942–15952,2021. 
 Ethan Perez,Florian Strub,Harmde Vries,Vincent Dumoulin,and Aaron Courville. Film: Visual
 reasoning with a general conditioning layer. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
 Intelligence, 32(1), Apr. 2018. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v 32 i 1.11671. URL https://ojs.aaai.
 org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11671. 
 
 17 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Lerrel Pinto and Abhinav Gupta. Supersizingself-supervision:Learningtograsp from 50 ktries and
 700 robothours. In 2016 IEEEinternationalconferenceonrobotics and automation(ICRA),pp.
 3406–3413.IEEE,2016. 
 
 Dean APomerleau. Alvinn: Anautonomousl and vehicleinaneuralnetwork. Advancesinneural
 informationprocessingsystems,1,1988. 
 Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
 Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual
 models from natural language supervision. In International Conference on Machine Learning,
 pp.8748–8763.PMLR,2021. 
 Antonin Raffin,Ashley Hill,Rene´Traore´,Timo the´e Lesort,Natalia D´ıaz-Rodr´ıguez,and David Fil-
 liat. Decouplingfeatureextraction from policylearning:assessingbenefitsofstaterepresentation
 learningingoal base drobotics. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:1901.08651,2019. 
 Aditya Ramesh,Mikhail Pavlov,Gabriel Goh,Scott Gray,Chelsea Voss,Alec Radford,Mark Chen,
 and Ilya Sutskever. Zero-shottext-to-imagegeneration. In International Conferenceon Machine
 Learning,pp.8821–8831.PMLR,2021. 
 
 Scott Reed, Konrad Zolna, Emilio Parisotto, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Alexander Novikov,
 Gabriel Barth-Maron, Mai Gimenez, Yury Sulsky, Jackie Kay, Jost Tobias Springenberg, et al.
 Ageneralistagent. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2205.06175,2022. 
 Michael Ryoo, AJPiergiovanni, Anurag Arnab, Mostafa Dehghani, and Anelia Angelova. Token-
 learner:Adaptivespace-timetokenization for videos.Advancesin Neural Information Processing
 Systems,34:12786–12797,2021. 
 Ashutosh Saxena, Justin Driemeyer, Justin Kearns, and Andrew Ng. Robotic grasping of novel
 objects. Advancesinneuralin for mationprocessingsystems,19,2006. 
 Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah,Zichen Jeff Cui,Ariuntuya Altanzaya,and Lerrel Pinto.Behavior
 trans for mers: Cloningkmodes with onestone. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2206.11251,2022.
 
 Pratyusha Sharma, Lekha Mohan, Lerrel Pinto, and Abhinav Gupta. Multiple interactions made
 easy(mime): Large scale demonstrations data for imitation. In Conferenceonrobotlearning,pp.
 906–915.PMLR,2018. 
 Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox. Cliport: What and where pathways for robotic
 manipulation. In Proceedingsof the 5 th Conferenceon Robot Learning(Co RL),2021.
 Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox. Perceiver-actor: A multi-task trans for mer for
 roboticmanipulation. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2209.05451,2022. 
 
 Andrew Silva, Nina Moorman, William Silva, Zulfiqar Zaidi, Nakul Gopalan, and Matthew Gom-
 bolay.Lancon-learn:Learning with languagetoenablegeneralizationinmulti-taskmanipulation.
 IEEERobotics and Automation Letters,7(2):1635–1642,2021. 
 Avi Singh, Eric Jang, Alexander Irpan, Daniel Kappler, Murtaza Dalal, Sergey Levinev, Mohi
 Khansari, and Chelsea Finn. Scalable multi-task imitation learning with autonomous improve-
 ment. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 2167–
 2173.IEEE,2020. 
 Simon Stepputtis, Joseph Campbell, Mariano Phielipp, Stefan Lee, Chitta Baral, and Heni
 Ben Amor. Language-conditioned imitation learning for robot manipulation tasks. Advances
 in Neural Information Processing Systems,33:13139–13150,2020. 
 Mingxing Tanand Quoc Le. Efficient Net: Rethinking model scaling for convolutionalneuralnet-
 works. In Kamalika Chaudhuri and Ruslan Salakhutdinov (eds.), Proceedings of the 36 th In-
 ternational Conference on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
 Research, pp. 6105–6114. PMLR, 09–15 Jun 2019. URL https://proceedings.mlr.
 press/v 97/tan 19 a.html. 
 
 18 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Stefanie Tellex, Thomas Kollar, Steven Dickerson, Matthew Walter, Ashis Banerjee, Seth Teller,
 and Nicholas Roy. Understandingnaturallanguagecommands for roboticnavigation and mobile
 manipulation. In Proceedingsof the AAAIConferenceon Artificial Intelligence,volume 25,pp.
 1507–1514,2011. 
 Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
 Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural informa-
 tionprocessingsystems,30,2017. 
 
 Ulrich Viereck,Andreas Pas,Kate Saenko,and Robert Platt. Learningavisuomotorcontroller for
 realworldroboticgraspingusingsimulateddepthimages. In Conferenceonrobotlearning,pp.
 291–300.PMLR,2017. 
 Ted Xiao,Eric Jang,Dmitry Kalashnikov,Sergey Levine,Julian Ibarz,Karol Hausman,and Alexan-
 der Herzog. Thinkingwhilemoving:Deeprein for cementlearning with concurrentcontrol. ar Xiv
 preprintar Xiv:2004.06089,2020. 
 Tianhe Yu,Deirdre Quillen,Zhanpeng He,Ryan Julian,Karol Hausman,Chelsea Finn,and Sergey
 Levine.Meta-world:Abenchmark and evaluation for multi-task and metarein for cementlearning.
 In Conferenceonrobotlearning,pp.1094–1100.PMLR,2020. 
 Tianhao Zhang,Zoe Mc Carthy,Owen Jow,Dennis Lee,Xi Chen,Ken Goldberg,and Pieter Abbeel.
 Deep imitation learning for complex manipulation tasks from virtual reality teleoperation. In
 2018 IEEEInternational Conferenceon Robotics and Automation(ICRA),pp.5628–5635.IEEE,
 2018. 
 Yichi Zhang and Joyce Chai. Hierarchical task learning from language instructions with unified
 trans for mers and self-monitoring. ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2106.03427,2021. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 APPENDIX 
 
 A AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 
 
 • Evaluations (ablations, designing procedures, implementations, and running abla-
 tions): Yevgen Chebotar,Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,Karol Hausman,Julian Ibarz,Brian
 Ichter, Alex Irpan, Isabel Leal, Kuang-Huei Lee, Yao Lu, Ofir Nachum, Kanishka Rao,
 Sumedh Sontakke,Austin Stone,Quan Vuong,Fei Xia,Ted Xiao,and Tianhe Yu.
 • Network Architecture (tokenizer, training, inference): Yevgen Chebotar, Keerthana
 Gopalakrishnan, Julian Ibarz, Alex Irpan, Kuang-Huei Lee, Yao Lu, Karl Pertsch, Kan-
 ishka Rao,Michael Ryoo,Sumedh Sontakke,Austin Stone,and Quan Vuong. 
 • Developed Infrastructure(data,training,collect,simulation,evaluations,storage,and
 operations): Anthony Brohan,Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,Karol Hausman,Alex Herzog,
 Jasmine Hsu,Alex Irpan,Nikhil Joshi,Ryan Julian,Dmitry Kalashnikov,Yuheng Kuang,
 Isabel Leal,Yao Lu,Fei Xia,Ted Xiao,Peng Xu,Sichun Xu,and Tianhe Yu. 
 • Leadership(managedoradvisedon the project): Chelsea Finn,Karol Hausman,Julian
 Ibarz,Sally Jesmonth,Sergey Levine,Yao Lu,Igor Mordatch,Carolina Parada,Kanishka
 Rao,Pannag Sanketi,Vincent Vanhoucke. 
 • Paper (figures, vizualizations, writing): Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman,
 Brian Ichter,Sergey Levine,Ofir Nachum,Karl Pertsch,Kanishka Rao,Austin Stone,Fei
 Xia,and Ted Xiao. 
 • Data collection and evaluations: Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Joseph Dabis, Tomas
 Jackson,Utsav Malla,Deeksha Manjunath,Jodily Peralta,Emily Perez,Jornell Quiambao,
 Grecia Salazar, Kevin Sayed, Jaspiar Singh, Clayton Tan, Huong Tran, Steve Vega, and
 Brianna Zitkovich. 
 B MODEL CARD 
 
 Wepresent the Model Card for RT-1 in Fig.7. 
 
 C MODEL AND DATA 
 
 C.1 MODELINFERENCE 
 
 In addition to the inference speed requirement, we need to ensure that our system outputs actions
 at a consistent frequency, avoiding jitter. To accomplish this, we introduce a fixed-time waiting
 mechanism that waitsacertainamountoftime(280 ms,themaxobservedlatencyofallcomponents)
 after the state,thatwasusedtocompute the nextaction,has been captured,butbe for eapplying the
 action,similarlyto the proceduredescribedby Xiaoetal.(2020). 
 C.2 DATACOLLECTIONat scale. 
 
 Each of the robots autonomously approaches its station at the beginning of the episode and com-
 municates to the operator the instruction that they should demonstrate to the robot. To ensure a
 balanced dataset as well as randomization of the scene, we created a softw are module responsible
 for sampling the instructions to be demonstrated as well as the randomization of the background
 configuration. Each of the robots tells the demonstrator how to randomize the scene and which
 instructiontodemonstrate. 
 Demonstrations are collected with direct line-of-sight between operator and robot using 2 virtual
 reality remotes. We map remote controls onto our policy action space to preserve consistency of
 thetransition-dynamics. 3 Dposition and rotationaldisplacementsof the remote are mappedto 6 d
 displacementsof the robottool. Thex,ypositionof the joystickismappedtoaturningangle and
 drivingdistanceof the mobile base. Wecompute and tracktrajectoriesto the targetposesthatwe
 obtain from the joystickcommands. 
 20 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 Model Card for RT-1(Robotics Trans for mer) 
 Model Details 
 • Developedbyresearchersat Roboticsat Google and Everyday Robots,2022,v 1.
 • Trans for mer-based model,builtupona Fi LM-conditioned Efficient Net(Tan&Le,
 2019),a Token Learner(Ryooetal.,2021),anda Trans for mer(Vaswanietal.,2017).
 • Trainedwithimitationlearning with inputsofnaturallanguagetasks and images and
 outputrobotactions. 
 Intended Use 
 • Intendedtobeused for controllingan Everyday Robot for manipulationtasks.
 • Unclearsuitabilityasalearnedrepresentation for differentroboticembodiments,
 environments,orsignifi can tlyvarieddownstreamtasks. 
 • Notsuitable for interaction with humans. 
 Factors 
 • Factorsincludevaryingbackgrounds,lighting,scenes,baseposition,andnovel
 naturallanguagetasks. Hardw are factorsincludecamera and robotembodiment.
 Metrics 
 • Evaluationmetricsincludeseen task per for mance,unseen task per for mance,
 robustnesstobackgrounds and distractors,andper for manceinlong-horizon
 scenarios. Eachmeasuresthesuccessrateof the modelper for mingnaturallanguage
 specifiedtasks with randomizedobjectsandobjectlocations and varyingscenes.
 Training Data 
 • Trainedon 130 ktele-operationdemonstrationsover 13 robots and 744 tasks.
 Skill Count Description Example Instruction 
 Pick Object 130 Lifttheobjectoff the surface pickicedtea can 
 Move Object Near Object 337 Movethefirstobjectnear the second movepepsi can nearrxbarblueberry
 Place Object Upright 8 Placeanelongatedobjectupright placewaterbottleupright
 Knock Object Over 8 Knockanelongatedobjectover knockredbull can over 
 Open/Close Drawer 6 Openorcloseanyof the cabinetdrawers open the topdrawer
 Place Objectinto Receptacle 84 Placeanobjectinto are ceptacle placebrownchipbagintowhitebowl
 Pick Object from Receptacle 162 Pickanobjectup from alocation and then pickgreenjalapenochipbag from paper
 and Placeon the Counter placeiton the counter bowl and placeoncounter 
 Additionaltasks 9 Skillstrained for realistic,longinstructions pullnapkinoutofdispenser
 Total 744 
 Evaluation Data 
 • Evaluatedonreal-worldrandomizedscenes and over 3000 totalrolloutsin the
 environmentitwastrainedonaswellastwo new officekitchenenvironments.
 Quantitative Analyses 
 • RT-1 showshigh-per for mance and robustness and can learn from heterogenous data.
 
 
 
 
 Ethical Considerations 
 • Earlyresearch,modelhasnotyet been evaluated for suitabilitytouseoutsideofits
 currentresearchsetting. 
 Caveats and Recommendations 
 • While the current model coversonlyasmallportionofpossibleroboticmanipulation
 tasks,itpresents are cipe for scalableroboticlearning and anarchitecture that shows
 favorablegeneralization and dataabsorptionproperties. 
 Figure 7: Model Card for RT-1. 
 
 21 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 C.3 MODELSELECTIONat scale 
 
 
 Asrobotlearningsystemsbecomemorecapable and the numberofinstructionsthey can handlein-
 creases,evaluationof the semodelsbecomesdifficult(Kalashnikovetal.,2021 a;Jangetal.,2021).
 Thisisanimportantconsiderationnotonly for evaluatingdifferent model classes and datadistribu-
 tionsduring the developmentprocess,butalso for selecting the mostper for mant model checkpoints
 for a particular training run. While there have been a number of proposed solutions to this prob-
 lem (Dud´ık et al., 2011; Irpan et al., 2019; Hanna et al., 2017), mostly known in the offline rein-
 forcementlearningliteratureas“off-policyevaluation”,itstillremainsan open researchchallenge
 toevaluatemulti-taskrobotlearningsystemsat scale. 
 Inthiswork,weproposeleveragingsimulation for“realtosim”transferasascalabletool that pro-
 videsanapproximateestimateof model per for manceduringtrainingacrossmanyrealtasks.Werun
 policiestrained from real data inasimulatortotest the fullrolloutper for mance. Note that allof our
 training data comes from the realworld(except the experimentin Section 6.3),and the simulatoris
 usedonly for modelselection. Toaccomplish this,weexp and the simulationenvironmentproposed
 by Leeetal.(2022 b)tosupport 551 ofthe task sdescribedin Section 5.2. Foreachof the setasks,
 we define a set of scene setup randomizations, robot pose randomizations, and success detection
 criteria. Tobridgethevisualdistributionshiftbetweentherealworld and the simulation, wetrain
 a Retina GAN (Ho et al., 2020) model that transforms simulated images into realistic looking im-
 ages. Then,wedeploypoliciestrainedonreal data directlyinto the sesimulationenvironmentsby
 applying Retina GANvisualtrans for mationsateachtimestep and measuringrolloutsimulated task
 successrates. 
 While model strainedonlyonrealworld data per for mbetterintherealworldthan the ydoinsim-
 ulation,wefind that the simulationsuccessratesofhigh-per for mingrealworldpolicies are higher
 than the simulationsuccessratesoflow-per for mingrealworldpolicies.Ino the rwords,theordering
 of simulation policy success rates are informative for predicting the ordering of real world policy
 successrates. Wenote that inthisreal-to-simevaluationsetting, wehavealessstrictrequirement
 for simulation accuracy compared to sim-to-real settings; as long as simulation success rates are
 directionallycorrelated with realsuccessrates,we canacceptamoderateorevenhighgapbetween
 real and simulationsuccessrates. 
 Wepresentexamplecameraimages from simulationaswellastheir Retina GAN-basedtransforma-
 tionsin Fig.8. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 8:Examplecameraimagesshowcasingrawsimulation,simulation with Retina GANapplied,
 and the realworld. 
 
 
 
 22 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 C.4 DATACOLLECTIONPROCESS 
 
 Figure 9 shows the growthof data,numberoftasks,andthesuccessrateof the policyovertime.The
 numberoftasks/instructions that oursystemiscapableofgrowsovertimeasmore data iscollected.
 Thesameistrue with the per for manceofseentasks.Oneoftheimportantaspectsof the futurework
 isdeveloptechniques that allowustogrowthe data aswellas the robotsper for mance and general
 capabilitiesatafasterrate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 9: Thegrowthof data,numberoftasks,andseeninstructionper for manceovertime.
 
 
 D EXPERIMENTS 
 
 D.1 EVALUATIONDETAILS 
 
 In Section 6.2, westudy the zero-shotgeneralizationcapabilitiesof RT-1 todifficultscenariosnot
 present in the training dataset. To fairly evaluate different ablations of RT-1 as well as baseline
 policies,wedesignst and ardizedevaluationprocedures that coverarangeofincrementaldifficulty
 levels. 
 Seen tasks. We evaluate on 744 tasks present in the training dataset. The breakdown between 12
 skillsisshownin Table 1. Forall“Seen”evaluations, we use the sameclassroomsettingused for
 datacollectionasdescribedin Section 5.2. Foreachpolicy,wereportasinglerepresentativemetric
 thattakesaskill-weightedaverageacrossindividualskillevaluations. 
 Unseentasks. Weevaluatepolicyper for manceon 53 tasks that are heldoutduringtraining. While
 the unseen instructions’ specific combinations of skills and objects are not seen during training,
 othercombinationsofthesameskills and objects are presentin the trainingset. Weevaluatethese
 unseen task sinthesameenvironment and the samer and omizationprocedureas the Seentasks. A
 fulllistof the seunseen task sisshownin Table 8. 
 Distractorrobustness. Wetestthreetasks(“pickcoke can”,“placecoke can upright”,“movecoke
 canneargreenricechipbag”)withincrementallymoredistractorobjectsaddedto the scene. The
 easysettingincludes 0,2,or 5 distractorobjects. Themediumsettingincludes 9 distractorobjects,
 but the coke can is never obscured. The hard setting includes 9 distractor objects, but the scene
 is more crowded and the coke can is partially occluded. Both the medium are hard setting are
 more difficult than scenarios in the training dataset, which contained between 0 and 4 distractors.
 Examplesof the sedifficultysettings and policyevaluationrollouts are shownin Figure 12.
 Background robustness. We test six tasks (“pick coke can”, “move blue chip bag near or-
 ange”, “knock redbull can over”, “pick green jalapeno chip bag”, “move sponge near brown chip
 bag”,“place redbull can upright”) with incrementally more challenging backgrounds and counter
 textures. Intheeasysetting,weutilize the samebackgroundenvironments and countertexturesas
 thetraining data set. Inthemediumsetting,weutilize the samebackgroundenvironmentbutadda
 patternedtableclothtochange the countertexture.Inthehardsetting,weutilizeabr and newkitchen
 environment with anewcountertop;thischanges the countertexture,drawermaterial and color,and
 23 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 backgroundvisuals. Examplesof the sedifficultysettings and policyevaluationrollouts are shown
 in Figure 10. 
 
 Realistic instructions. To study how RT-1 performs in more realistic scenarios, we propose an
 evaluation setting in a real office kitchen that is a dramatic shift from the original training class-
 room environment. We propose a variety of skills that combine aspects of the previous zero-shot
 evaluations, including adding new distractors, including new backgrounds, and new combinations
 ofobjects with skills. Wereferto the easiestscenarioas L 1 generalization,whichintroducesa new
 countertopandlightingconditionbutkeepstheskills and objects the same. Next,L 2 generalization
 additionallyaddsnoveldistractorobjectssuchaskitchenjarcontainers. Finally,L 3 generalization
 addsnewobjectsor new locationssuchasnearasink. Whilesomeof the sedistributionshifts are
 tested in Section 6.2, these realistic instructions aim to test multiple dimensions simultaneously.
 Examplesof the seinstructions are presentedin Fig.11. 
 Easy 
 same background, 
 same texture 
 
 Medium 
 same background, 
 new texture 
 Hard 
 new background, 
 new texture 
 
 Figure 10: “Backgrounds” evaluations focus on testing the per for mance of RT-1 on settings with
 differenttabletextures and differentbackgrounds,suchasthosefoundinkitchensnevertrainedon.
 These visual differences are quite pronounced, which in the most challenging case entails a new
 kitchen with differentcountertexture,differentlightingconditions,differentcountermaterial,anda
 differentbackground. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 11:“Realisticinstructions”evaluationsproposerealisticscenariosmultipledistributionshifts
 thatincrementallyincreaseindifficulty. L 1 generalizationintroducesa new realofficekitchen with
 newlightingconditions. L 2 generalizationadditionallyaddsunseendistractorobjects. Finally,L 3
 generalizationincludesnewobjectsorobjectsin new locations,suchasnexttoasink.
 
 D.2 HETEROGENEOUS DATA 
 
 Wealsoexplore the limitsof RT-1 forutilizinghighlyheterogeneous data.Wedemonstratehow RT-
 1 canincorporateandlearn from vastlydifferent data sources and improve from such data with out
 
 24 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Instruction 
 pickcoke can fromtopdrawer and placeoncounter 
 pickgreen can fromtopdrawer and placeoncounter 
 pickgreenricechipbag from middledrawer and placeoncounter 
 pickredbull can fromtopdrawer and placeoncounter 
 place 7 upcanintobottomdrawer 
 placebrownchipbagintotopdrawer 
 placegreen can intomiddledrawer 
 move 7 upcannearredbull can 
 moveappleneargreenricechipbag 
 moveapplenearpaperbowl 
 moveapplenearredbull can 
 movebluechipbagnearblueplasticbottle 
 movebluechipbagnearpepsi can 
 movebluechipbagnearsponge 
 movebrownchipbagnearapple 
 movebrownchipbagneargreenricechipbag 
 movebrownchipbagnearredbull can 
 movecoke can neargreenjalapenochipbag 
 movecoke can nearwaterbottle 
 movegreen can near 7 upcan 
 movegreen can nearapple 
 movegreen can nearcoke can 
 movegreenjalapenochipbagnearbluechipbag 
 movegreenricechipbagnearorange 
 movegreenricechipbagnearorange can 
 movegreenricechipbagnearpaperbowl 
 moveorange can nearbrownchipbag 
 movepepsi can nearorange can 
 moveredbull can nearcoke can 
 moverxbarblueberrynearblueplasticbottle 
 moverxbarblueberrynearorange can 
 moverxbarchocolatenearpaperbowl 
 moverxbarchocolatenearrxbarblueberry 
 movespongenearapple 
 movewaterbottlenear 7 upcan 
 movewaterbottlenearsponge 
 movewhitebowlnearorange can 
 pickblueplasticbottle 
 pickgreenricechipbag 
 pickorange 
 pickrxbarchocolate 
 picksponge 
 placepepsi can upright 
 knockorange can over 
 pickblueplasticbottle from paperbowl and placeoncounter 
 pickbrownchipbag from whitebowl and placeoncounter 
 pickgreen can frompaperbowl and placeoncounter 
 pickgreenjalapenochipbag from whitebowl and placeoncounter 
 pickorange can fromwhitebowl and placeoncounter 
 pickredbull can fromwhitebowl and placeoncounter 
 placeblueplasticbottleintopaperbowl 
 placecoke can intopaperbowl 
 placeorange can intopaperbowl 
 Table 8: Listof Unseen Instructionsin Sec.6.2. Forthe“Unseen Tasks”evaluation,weexcludea
 totalof 53 tasksduringtraining. Whiletheseexactinstructions were notpresentin the trainingset,
 theobjects and skillscontainedintheseinstructions were stillpresentin the trainingset.
 25 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Easy 
 2 - 5 distractors, 
 no occlusion 
 
 
 Medium 
 9 distractors, 
 no occlusion 
 
 
 
 Hard 
 9 distractors, 
 occlusion 
 
 
 Figure 12: “Distractors”evaluationsfocusondiversifyinginitialsceneconfigurationswellbeyond
 thedistributionscontainedin the training data set,whichcontainbetween 2 and 4 distractorobjects.
 Inthemostchallengingscenarios, thesceneisextremelycluttered and containsocclusions for the
 objectsofinterest. 
 
 
 sacrificingitsoriginal-tasksper for manceacross the varied task sinherentin this data. Tothisend,
 weconducttwoexperiments: (1)RT-1 trainedandtestedonbothreal data and simulation data and
 (2)RT-1 trainedacrosslarge data setsofdifferenttasks,originallycollectedbydifferentrobots.
 Absorbingsimulation data. Table 9 shows the abilityof RT-1, and base lines,toabsorbbothreal
 and simulation data. To test this, we take all of the real demonstration data but we also provide
 additionalsimulation data thatincludesobjects that therobothasneverseenin the realworld. We
 addasetofsimobjects and onlyshow the monasubsetoftasks,specifically the pickingtasks,in
 simulation. To accomplish this, we run our real 2 sim method described in Sec. C.3 to bootstrap a
 simulation policy from the real world policy that is then trained with multi-task RL (Kalashnikov
 etal.,2021 a)withadditionalobjectsinsimulation. From this process, weextract 518 ksuccessful
 trajectories of picking new objects and mix them with the real data that was used in the previous
 experiments. Thegoalof this experimentistodemonstrate that byexp and ing the datasetofsimu-
 lationtrajectories,we can benefit RT-1’sgeneralizationcapabilities with outsacrificing the original
 trainingper for mance–adesiredpropertyofanabsorbent model. 
 Toevaluate the propertiesof this model,wespecifydifferentgeneralizationscenarios:forseenskills
 withrealobjects the training data hasrealdataof that instruction(i.e.,per for manceonseentasks),
 forseenskills with simobjects the training data hassimdataof that instruction(e.g. “pickupasim
 object”,whichwaspresentinsim),and for unseenskills with simobjects the training data hassim
 dataof that objectbutthere are noexamplesoftheinstructiondescribing the skill with thatobject
 eitherinsimorinreal(e.g.,“moveasimobjecttoapple”,eventhough the robothasonlypracticed
 inpicking that simobject and notmovingitnearo the robjects). Allevaluations are donein the real
 worldbuttolimit the numberofinstructionsevaluated,wefocusonpick and move-toskills.
 We find in Table 9 that for RT-1, we do not lose per for mance adding simulation data compared
 to the Real Only dataset. We do however, see a significant increase in per for mance (from 23% to
 87%)onobjects and tasksseenonlyinsimulation, toapproximatelytheper for manceof the those
 in real, demonstrating an impressive degree of domain transfer. We also see a significant increase
 inper for manceonunseeninstructions from 7%to 33%;impressivegiven the objectinquestionhas
 never been seen in real and the instruction never seen at all. Overall, we find that RT-1 is able to
 efficiently“spongeup”newdata,even from averydifferentdomain. 
 26 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 60% 
 50% 
 Real Objects Sim Objects(notseeninreal) 
 40% 
 Seen Skill Seen Skill Unseen Skill 
 Models Training Data w/Objects w/Objects w/Objects 30% 
 RT-1 Real Only 92 23 7 20% 
 RT-1 Real+Sim 90 87 33 
 10% 
 0% 
 Sim-seen Objects Sim-seen Objects Real Tasks
 w/ Skills w/o Skills 
 ot 
 derapmo C 
 eta R 
 sseccu S 
 ylno 
 lae R 
 Real +Sim Data 
 +64% 
 +26% 
 -2% 
 Table 9: Experimental results for incorporating simulation data in RT-1. Adding simulation data
 doesnotimpact the per for manceonrealobjects,whilesignifi can tlyimprovingrealper for manceon
 objects that wereonlyintroducedinsimulation. 
 Absorbing data from different robots. To push the data absorption limits of RT-1, we conduct
 an additional set of experiments where we combine two data sources that originate from different
 robots: Kuka IIWA as well as the Everyday Robots mobile manipulators used in the experiments
 sofar. The Kuka data containsall the successfulexamplescollectedin QT-Opt(Kalashnikovetal.,
 2018),whichcorrespondsto 209 kepisodes,where the robotwasindiscriminatelygraspingobjects
 inabin(seeanexampleofa Kukaepisodein Table.10). Ourgoalin this experimentistoanalyze
 whether the per for manceon the RT-1 tasksdropswhenadding the additional data and,moreimpor-
 tantly,whe the rwe canobserveanytransfer from datacollectedbyadifferentrobotmorphology.
 Wewouldliketoemphasizethedifficultyof this settingbynoting the majordifferencesbetween the
 datasets. Notonly are therobots that collected the datadifferentinappearance and actionspace,but
 alsotheenvironment the yweredeployedinhasdifferentappearance and dynamics. Inaddition the
 QT-Opt data presentsacompletelydifferentactiondistribution–itwascollectedbyan RLagentas
 opposedtohum and emonstrationspresentin our data set. 
 Tomix the Kuka data toge the rwith the RT-1 data,wefirsttransform the original Kuka 4-DOFaction
 spaceinto the sameactionspaceas RT-1,namelyweset the roll and pitchto 0,whilekeeping the yaw
 values that werepresentin the original Kuka data.Inaddition,wetransform the binarygripper-close
 comm and intoacontinuousgripper-closednesscomm and thatispresentin the RT-1 data. Wealso
 needtextinstructionscorrespondingto the taskper for med and since the Kuka data doesnotcontain
 thenameof the object that wasgrasped, werelabelall the datato the“pickanything”instruction.
 With the semodifications,wemixboth data sets with the 2:1(RT-1 data: Kuka data)ratio and train
 RT-1 toobtain the final model. 
 Totestwhether RT-1 caneffectivelyabsorb the setwoverydifferent data sets, weevaluate the per-
 formance on the original RT-1 tasks (in this case, we also focus on “pick” and “move to” skills),
 which were fertoas the standard“Classroomeval”,aswellastheper for manceon the newlycon-
 structed tasks that reflect the bin-picking setup present in the Kuka data, which we refer to as the
 “Bin-pickingeval”. Forthe Bin-pickingevaltobecloseto the original data set,weputin the same
 looking bin for the objects as well as modify the robot to be similar to the Kuka manipulators by
 adding extra wires and coloring the gripper gray. For all of the evaluations we use the Everyday
 Robotsrobot with the pickingcommands and evaluateit base don 72 graspingtrials.
 Theresults are presentedin Table 10. Weobserve that the model that mixes the RT-1 data and the
 Kuka data hasonlyaminimaldecreasein the originaltasks’per for mance(i.e. Classroomeval),i.e.
 2%. Even more importantly, in the Bin-picking eval, we observe that the model trained on multi-
 robot data per for msat 39%comp are dto the 22%ofthe model that wastrainedonlyon the RT-1 data.
 Thisisa 17%per for mancedifference(almost 2 x). Additionally,RT-1 trainedon Kukabin-picking
 data and evaluated on the bin-picking tasks with the Everyday Robots (EDR) robot achieves 0%
 per for mance, confirming that it is difficult to transfer a behavior from another robot morphology.
 However, mixing the data from both robots allows RT-1 to infer the correct actions of the EDR
 robot even when faced with the states observed by Kuka robots. This is achieved without explicit
 demonstrationsofbin-pickingon EDRrobot and bytakingadvantageofpastexperiencescollected
 by Kukarobots. Theseresultsindicate that RT-1’sabsorptionpropertiesalsoinclude the abilityto
 27 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 
 17.5% 
 15.0% 
 12.5% Models Training Data Classroomeval Bin-pickingeval
 10.0% 
 RT-1 Kukabin-picking data+EDRdata 90 39 
 7.5% 
 RT-1 EDRonly data 92 22 
 5.0% RT-1 Kukabin-pickingonly data 0 0
 2.5% 
 0.0% 
 2.5% 
 Bin-picking Eval Classroom Eval
 yln O 
 RDE 
 ot 
 derapmo C 
 eta R 
 sseccu S 
 EDR +Kuka Data 
 +17% 
 -2% 
 Table 10: Experimental results for mixing data from two different robots. Incorporating Kuka
 bin-picking data from QT-Opt (Kalashnikov et al., 2018) in RT-1 minimally impacts the standard
 classroomevaluationper for mance and resultsinalmosta 2 ximprovementingeneralizationto the
 Bin-picking evaluation (that is similar to the setup in the Kuka data) on the Everyday Robots ma-
 nipulator. Thisdemonstratesaneffectivetransferacrosstwodifferentrobotmorphologies.
 acquire new skills through observing other robots’ experiences and present an exciting avenue of
 futureworkwherewecombinemanymoremulti-robot data setstoenhance the robotcapabilities.
 D.3 LONG-HORIZONEVALUATIONDETAILS 
 Inadditiontoshort-horizonindividualskillevaluationsshowninprevioussections,wealsoevaluate
 how RT-1 per for msinalong-horizonrealistickitchensetting that chainsmultiplemanipulation and
 navigation skills to accomplish natural language instructions within the Say Can framework (Ahn
 etal.,2022). Alistoflong-horizoninstructionsused for the seevaluationsislistedin Table 12.
 Thesuccessrateoflong-horizon task sdecreasesexponentially with thelengthof the task,sohigh
 successratesinmanipulationskills are particularlyimportant. Fur the rmore,asmobilemanipulation
 tasks require both navigation and manipulation, the policies ability to be robust to base position
 iscrucial. Since Say Cancombinesmanylow-levelinstructionstoper for mhigh-levelinstructions,
 the number of possible high-level instructions increases combinatorially with instructions, so the
 skill-breadthof RT-1 can befullyseen. 
 Say Can works by grounding language models in robotic affordances and it leverages few-shot
 prompting to break down a long horizon task expressed in natural language to a sequence of low
 level skills. An example of long horizon task would be “Bring me two different sodas”, and one
 feasibleplanwouldbe“1. findacoke,2. pickup the coke,3. bringittoyou,4. putdown the coke,
 5. findapepsi,6. pickup the pepsi,7. bringittoyou,8. putdown the pepsi,9. done.” Toobtain the
 affordancefunctionwe usevaluefunctionstrained with MT-OPT(Kalashnikovetal.,2021 a). Fora
 detaileddescriptionof Say Canalgorithmpleasereferto (Ahnetal.,2022). 
 Since the focusof this paperisacquisitionofmanygeneralizableskills,wefocus our evaluationon
 onesubsetof task spresentedin Ahnetal.(2022).Itis the long-horizonfamilyoftasks,involving 15
 instructions,eachinstructionrequiresanaverageof 9.6 stepstocomplete,andinvolvesanaverage
 of 2.4 manipulationskillsperinstruction. Afulllistof the instructions can befoundin Table 12.
 Wecomp are against 3 baselines.1)Say Canwith BC-Z,whichuses Say Canplanningalgorithm with
 BC-Z as manipulation policy, 2) Say Can with Gato, which uses Say Can planning algorithm with
 Gato as manipulation policy, 3) Originally reported Say Can results, which use Say Can planning
 algorithm with BC-Z,butsinceitusesaslightlydifferentprompt,theplanningsuccessrateislower.
 Wereimplemented 3)in 1)forafaircomparison. 
 Asshownin Table 11,except for original Say Can,allmethodsget 87%asplanningsuccessrate,and
 RT-1 performs the best,with 67%executionsuccessratein Kitchen 1. Kitchen 2 constitutesamuch
 morechallenginggeneralizationscene,since the Robot Classroomtrainingscenes are modeledafter
 Kitchen 1 (see the pictures of the kitchens in Fig. 2). Due to this generalization difficulty, Say Can
 with Gato is not able to finish any long horizon task, and Say Can with BC-Z is able to achieve a
 success rate of 13%. The original Say Can paper did not evaluate per for mance in a new kitchen.
 Surprisingly,themanipulationper for mancedoesnotseeavisibledrop from Kitchen 1 to Kitchen 2
 28 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 for our method. Inthesupplementaryvideo,weshow that thisenablesustooperateunseendrawers
 in Kitchen 2,andthatwe canuse Say Can-RT 1 toplan and executeultra-longhorizontasks,withas
 manyas 50 steps. 
 Say Can task sin Kitchen 1 Say Can task sin Kitchen 2 
 Planning Execution Planning Execution 
 Original Say Can(Ahnetal.,2022)∗ 73 47 - - 
 Say Canw/Gato(Reedetal.,2022) 87 33 87 0 
 Say Canw/BC-Z(Jangetal.,2021) 87 53 87 13 
 Say Canw/RT-1(ours) 87 67 87 67 
 Table 11: Say Canstylelonghorizon task sin Kitchen 1 and Kitchen 2. (*Original Say Canevaluses
 aslightlydifferentpromptso the planningsuccessrateislower.) 
 
 
 D.4 MODELABLATIONS 
 What are the important and practical decisions in the design of the model and how do they
 affectper for mance and generalization? 
 
 To answer this question, we perform a set of ablations over different design decisions in RT-1.
 We aim to test a number of hypo the ses that will help us disambiguate where the benefits of our
 methodcome from. Possiblehypothesesabout the sourceofimprovementinclude: (i)thecapacity
 andexpressivenessof our model,whichweverifybyablating the modelsize,tryingo the rarchitec-
 tures(e.g.,byremoving the Trans for mercomponent);(ii)theparticularactionrepresentation,which
 makesiteasytorepresentcomplexmulti-modalactiondistributions,whichwetestbyswitchingto
 continuous(normallydistributed)actions,aswellasbyablating the auto-regressiveactionrepresen-
 tation;(iii)the Image Netpre-trainedinitializationof the components,whichwetestbyinitializing
 themodel’sweightsr and omly;and(iv)accessto the shor this tory,whichwetestbyexcludingob-
 servationhistory.Moreconcretely,weablate our modelby(1)decreasing the modelsize(from 35 M
 to 21 Mparameters),(2)removing the Trans for merarchitecture(usingapre-trained Efficient Netin-
 stead),(3)usingacontinuousinsteadofdiscreteactionspace(usingan MSEloss and multivariate
 normaloutput), (4)auto-regressivelyconditioningonactions, (5)removing Image Netpre-training
 of the Fi LM Efficient Net, and (6) removing history (reducing the sequence of six images as input
 to a single image). For each ablation we comp are on the axes of per for mance on seen tasks, per-
 formanceonunseentasks,aswellasinferencespeedandrobustnesstodistractors and backgrounds
 (withamoredetaileddescriptionofeachcategoryin Section 6.1 and Appendix D.1).
 Table 13 shows the results of each ablation and the delta per for mance compared to the full RT-1.
 RT-1 achievesimpressiveper for manceontasks and newenvironments,andparticularlyoutperforms
 baselines on the most challenging robustness problems. We also find that each design decision is
 important,thoughatvaryinglevels. Wefirstevaluatea model that replaces the per-dimensiondis-
 cretizedactionrepresentationin our model with amorest and ardcontinuous Gaussi and istribution.
 We observe a significant decline in per for mance from this modification. The per-dimension dis-
 cretization allows our model to represent complex multi-modal distributions, while the Gaussian
 distributioncapturesonlyasinglemode. Theseresultssuggest that thisstandard and popularchoice
 ishighlysuboptimal with the morecomplex and diversedemonstration data usedby our system.Im-
 age Netpre-trainingisparticularlyimportant for modelgeneralization and robustness,decreasing the
 unseen task per for mancerateby 33%, asaresultof the large and diversevisualsof the Image Net
 dataset. Adding history has an impact primarily on generalization to distractors, while removing
 the Transformercomponenthasauni for mbutsmallnegativeimpactacross the seentasks, unseen
 tasks and distractors. Inordertokeep the Image Netpre-trainingwhilereducing the modelsize,we
 reduce the number of parameters only by 40% (from 31 M to 25 M). Resulting per for mance drops
 across training and generalization tasks but not as much as in other ablations. Finally, autoregres-
 sivelyconditioningonactions, asusedin(Reedetal.,2022;Chenetal.,2021;Leeetal.,2022 a),
 didnotbenefitper for mance and slowedinferencebymorethan 2 x. 
 Asdescribedin Sec.5.1,inordertorunlarge Trans for mer model sonrealrobots,werequirea model
 thatsupportsfastinference for real-timeoperation. Note that inordertoachieve our targetcontrol
 rateof 3 Hz(describedin Sec.5.1),wealsoneedtoconsiderothers our cesoflatencyin the pipeline,
 such as the camera latency and communication overhead. However, these factors will be constant
 29 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 Instruction 
 Howwouldyouputanenergybar and waterbottleon the table 
 Howwouldyoubringmealimesoda and abagofchips 
 Canyouthrowaway the apple and bringmeacoke 
 Howwouldyoubringmea 7 upcan and atea? 
 Howwouldthrowawayalltheitemson the table? 
 Howwouldyoumoveanmultigrainchipstothetable and anappleto the farcounter?
 Howwouldyoumove the limesoda,thesponge,andthewaterbottleto the table?
 Howwouldyoubringmetwosodas? 
 Howwouldyoumovethreecokesto the trash can? 
 Howwouldyouthrowawaytwocokes? 
 Howwouldyoubringmetwodifferentsodas? 
 Howwouldyoubringmeanapple,acoke,andwaterbottle? 
 Ispilledmycokeon the table,howwouldyouthrowitaway and the nbringmesomething
 tohelpclean? 
 Ijustworkedout,canyoubringmeadrink and asnacktorecover? 
 Howwouldyoubringmeafruit,asoda,andabagofchips for lunch 
 Table 12: Listof Say Caninstructionsevaluatedin Sec.6.4 
 Distractors Backgrounds 
 Model Seen Tasks Unseen Tasks All Easy Medium Hard All Inference Time(ms)
 Gato(Reedetal.,2022) 65(-32) 52(-24) 43(-40) 71 44 29 35(-24) 129 
 BC-Z(Jangetal.,2021) 72(-25) 19(-57) 47(-36) 100 67 7 41(-18) 5.3 
 BC-ZXL 56(-41) 43(-33) 23(-60) 57 33 0 35(-24) 5.9 
 RT-1(ours) 97 76 83 100 100 64 59 15 
 RT-1 w/obig model 89(-8) 62(-14) 77(-6) 100 100 50 53(-6) 13.5 
 RT-1 w/opre-training 84(-13) 43(-33) 60(-23) 100 67 36 41(-18) 15 
 RT-1 w/continuousactions 68(-29) 43(-33) 37(-46) 71 67 0 35(-24) 16 
 RT-1 w/auto-regressiveactions 85(-12) 71(-5) 67(-16) 100 78 43 65(+6) 36
 RT-1 w/ohistory 82(-15) 62(-14) 50(-33) 71 89 14 59(+0) 15 
 RT-1 w/o Trans for mer 86(-13) 62(-14) 67(-16) 100 100 29 59(+0) 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table 13: Various model ablations of RT-1 across seen tasks, generalization to unseen tasks, and
 robustnesstodistractors and backgrounds. 
 
 for all the models, and therefore we focus our evaluation on just the network inference time. The
 last column of Table 13 shows the inference speed of all the models. RT-1 is almost an order of
 magnitudefasterthan Gato with asimilarnumberofparameters,butitisalsoconsiderablyslower
 than a Res Net-based BC-Z. In terms of the different ablations of our model, we observe that the
 biggestslow-downiscausedbyincludingauto-regressiveactions(∼2 xslow-down),andsince this
 doesnotsignifi can tlyinfluence the per for mance,thefinalversionof RT-1 doesnotgenerateactions
 auto-regressively. 
 
 30 
 

 
 
 Preprint 
 
 
 
 D.5 SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS 
 
 In this section, we summarize some of our findings and propose intuition for RT-1’s high perfor-
 mance,generalization,androbustness. First,Image Netpretraining(along with Universal Sentence
 Encoder language embedding) has a large impact particularly on unseen tasks. We observe that
 RT-1 inherits some of the knowledge that results from the generality and diversity of the datasets
 thesemodels were trainedon. Second,continuousactions have alargeimpactacrossallaspectsof
 per for mance. This has been previously observed and may be due to the ability to represent more
 complexactiondistributions–theper-dimensiondiscretizationallows our model torepresentcom-
 plexmulti-modaldistributions,while the Gaussi and istributioncapturesonlyasinglemode. Third,
 given such expressive multi task models, data diversity has a larger impact than data size. Indeed,
 even datasets collected in simulated environments or from different robotic embodiments can be
 leveragedby RT-1,openingavenues for newregimesof data collection. 
 Finally,RT-1 fuseslanguageinto the imagepipelineearlyvia Fi LMconditioning,comp are dtoe.g.,
 Gato’slatefusion. Thisenablesimagetokens that focusonlyonrelevantfeatures for the instruction
 at hand, which may be the cause of poor distractor per for mance for Gato. Figure 13 visualizes
 theattentionduringrolloutsof RT-1. Wesee that the attentionisfocusedonrelevantfeatures and
 particularlyoninteractionbetweenthegripper and the objectofinterest.Thebottleneckofattention
 layers such as these results in a compact representation which effectively ignores distractors and
 varyingbackgrounds. 
 “pick green 
 jalapeno chip 
 Layer 2, bag from middle 
 Head 6 drawer and 
 place on 
 counter” 
 “place rxbar 
 Layer 2, 
 blueberry in 
 Head 6 
 bottom drawer” 
 
 Layer 4, 
 “open middle 
 Head 2 
 drawer” 
 
 Figure 13: Inthisfigureweshow the attentionmapof the RT-1 policy. Differentlayers and heads
 generallyfocusondifferentpartof the image. Mostcommonly,theyfocusonthepartsof the scene
 with the richest interaction affordances, such as graspable objets. For example, Layer 2 Head 6
 focuses on the jalapeno chips and pepsi can in grasping tasks; and Layer 4 Head 2 focuses on the
 drawerindrawer open ingtasks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 