 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS-LTS: 3 D Gaussian Splatting-Based Adaptive Modeling 
 for Long-Term Service Robots 
 
 
 Bin Fu 1 and Jialin Li 1 and Bin Zhang 1 and Ruiping Wang 1,(cid:12) and Xilin Chen 1
 
 
 Abstract—3 D Gaussian Splatting (3 DGS) has garnered sig- 
 nificant attention in robotics for its explicit, high fidelity 
 dense scene representation, demonstrating strong potential for 
 roboticapplications.However,3 DGS-basedmethodsinrobotics 
 primarily focus on static scenes, with limited attention to the 
 dynamic scene changes essential for long-term service robots. 
 These robots demand sustained task execution and efficient 
 scene updates—challenges current approaches fail to meet. 
 To address these limitations, we propose GS-LTS (Gaussian 
 Splatting for Long-Term Service), a 3 DGS-based system en- 
 abling indoor robots to manage diverse tasks in dynamic 
 environments over time. GS-LTS detects scene changes (e.g., 
 object addition or removal) via single-image change detection, 
 employs a rule-based policy to autonomously collect multi- 
 Addition Removal Relocation 
 view observations, and efficiently updates the scene represen- 
 tation through Gaussian editing. Additionally, we propose a Fig.1. Threecommontypesofscenechangesinindoorscenes.
 simulation-basedbenchmark that automaticallygeneratesscene 
 objects may be added, removed, or relocated over time. In
 change data ascompactconfigurationscripts,providingastan- 
 dardized, user-friendly evaluation benchmark. Experimental such environments, the robot must continuously observe the
 results demonstrate GS-LTS’s advantages in reconstruction, scene, autonomously detect changes, and update its scene
 navigation, and superior scene updates—faster and higher representation to maintain accuracy.
 quality than the image training baseline—advancing 3 DGS 
 A straight for ward approach to handling scene changes
 for long-term robotic operations. Code and benchmark are 
 available at: https://vipl-vsu.github.io/3 DGS-LTS would be to periodically recollect images and retrain or
 fine-tune the 3 DGSrepresentationwhenever the environment
 I. INTRODUCTION is modified. However, this method is computationally ex-
 3 D Gaussian Splatting (3 DGS) [1] is an explicit radiance pensive, requiring frequent reprocessing of large-scale data,
 field representation based on 3 D Gaussians. It has been and lacks efficiency for real-time or long-term deployment.
 widely applied in fields such as dense visual SLAM [2] and To address this task, we propose GS-LTS, a 3 DGS-based
 3 D reconstruction [3], benefiting from its explicit geometric system designed for Long-Term Service robots in indoor
 structure and real-time high-quality rendering. By further environments. The GS-LTS framework integrates four key
 embedding low-dimensional vision-semantic features into modules: (1) Gaussian Mapping Engine, which constructs
 each 3 DGaussian[4],acomprehensivescenerepresentation asemantic-aware 3 DGSrepresentation,integratinggeometry,
 integrating geometry, vision, andsemantics can be achieved, visualappearance,andsemantics;(2)Multi-Task Executor,
 which shows great potential in robotics applications, such which helps robots perform downstream tasks like object
 as navigation and instruction following. However, current navigation using the informative 3 DGS representation; (3)
 3 DGSattemptsin the sefieldsprimarilyfocusonstaticscenes Change Detection Unit, a long-running module that detects
 [5], which fail to align with the dynamic nature of real- scene changes at a specified frequency by comparing the
 world environments involving object changes, as illustrated robot’s current RGB observations with historical 3 DGS-
 in Fig. 1, making these approaches inadequate for long- rendered images, locating altered regions and analyzing
 term service robots working in dynamic settings. A more change types and positions; and (4) Active Scene Updater,
 realistic scenario involves a robot utilizing a prebuilt 3 DGS which is guided by a rule-based policy, directs the robot to
 representation to perform tasks in an environment where collectmulti-viewimagesarounddetectedareas,andapplies
 pre-editing and fine-tuning to dynamically update the 3 DGS
 *This work is partially supported by National Key R&D Program of representation based on the detect change type and new
 China No.2021 ZD 0111901,and Natural Science Foundationof Chinaunder 
 observations. Together, these components enable the robot
 contracts Nos.62495082,U 21 B 2025. 
 1 The authors are with the Key Laboratory of AI Safety of CAS, to adapt to evolving surroundings while maintaining robust
 Instituteof Computing Technology,Chinese Academyof Sciences(CAS), per for mance over extended periods.
 Beijing,100190,China,andalso with the Universityof Chinese Academy 
 Evaluating this system places significant demands on
 of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. {bin.fu, jialin.li, 
 bin.zhang}@vipl.ict.ac.cn, {wangruiping, both data availability and environmental support. Real-
 xlchen}@ict.ac.cn world settings struggle to support both robotic task execu-
 (cid:12)Correspondingauthor. tion and extensive variations, hindering large-scale dataset
 5202 
 ra M 
 22 
 ]OR.sc[ 
 1 v 33771.3052:vi Xra 

 
 
 
 
 creation and standardized evaluation. To address this, we Gaussians [11]. This adaptability makes 3 DGS suited for
 propose a simulation-based benchmark that supports task modeling dynamic environments. Leveraging these proper-
 execution and policy learning via 3 DGS representations ties, this work explores the integration of 3 DGS with long-
 while enabling systematic generation of large-scale scene term service robot systems operating in dynamic settings.
 change data throughobjectinteractions.Thisbenchmarknot 
 only facilitates large-scale evaluation but also serves as a B. Long-Term Robot Autonomy and Change Detection
 bridge for sim-to-real transfer, allowing models trained in 
 Long-Term Autonomy (LTA) is a critical research area
 simulation to achieve enhanced per for mance in real-world 
 in robotics, aimed at enabling robots to operate reliably
 environments. Our approach features two innovations: (1) 
 in complex environments over extended periods [12]. This
 automated generation of customizable scene change data, 
 capability is essential across various domains, including
 combining objects (e.g., cups), containers (e.g., tables), and 
 underwater exploration [13], and service robotics [14]. A
 positions to produce diverse scene change tasks; and (2) 
 major challenge in LTA is adapting to scene changes.
 storing scene change setups and environment meta data in 
 Our work focuses on medium-term changes [12] in indoor
 configuration scripts, which ensures efficient storage, easy 
 service environments, where robots must effectively model
 configuration,andaccuratereproductionofscenes.Thisscal- 
 and update representations of daily object variations. While
 able, reproducible benchmark reduces data acquisition costs 
 many LTA robotic systems have been deployed in service
 and provides standardized evaluation, advancing research on 
 scenarios [14], [15], our work introduces a novel approach
 3 DGS adaptability in dynamic environments. 
 leveraging 3 DGS for scene representation to enable efficient
 We conduct extensive validation of the GS-LTS system 
 adaptation to dynamic environments. 
 through a series of experiments. First, we evaluate scene 
 Scenechangedetectionisakeyresearch are aincomputer
 representation quality via image rendering for visual fidelity 
 vision, aiming to identify scene changes such as object
 and 3 D localization for semantic accuracy. Additionally, ob- 
 appearance, disappearance, or modifications. It is broadly
 jectnavigationresultsonanexistingbenchmark[6]highlight 
 classified into 2 D and 3 D approaches based on data type.
 the potential of 3 DGS for embodied tasks. Finally, on our 
 2 D change detection employs pairs of before-and-after RGB
 custom Scene Change Adaptation Benchmark, we comp are 
 images [16], leveraging models from CNNs to foundation
 our Gaussian editing-based method with the baseline of 
 models for feature extraction and change identification.
 direct image fine-tuning. Our approach signifi can tly reduces 
 Conversely, 3 D change detection incorporates spatial infor-
 scene update time while enhancing update quality. These 
 mation, relying on multi-view RGB images [17] or point
 comprehensive experiments fully demonstrate the efficiency 
 clouds [18]. Recent advances in 3 DGS-based novel-view
 and robustness of the GS-LTS system in scene reconstruc- 
 syn the sis [19] have demonstrated strong potential, whereas
 tion, embodied applications, and scene adaptability. 
 our GS-LTS system adopts a distinct approach, leveraging a
 Insummary,thisworkintroduces GS-LTS,deliveringthree 
 single egocentric RGB image for change detection to reduce
 key contributions: 
 data and computational demands. 
 • A 3 DGS-basedsystemenablingindoorrobotstohandle 
 diverse tasks in dynamic environments over time. III. SYSTEMOVERVIEW 
 • An automatic framework for object-level change detec- 
 In this section, we first introduce the task formulation
 tion and adaptive scene update via Gaussian editing. 
 for long-term service robot system working in dynamic
 • A scalable method for constructing a simulation bench- 
 environments base don 3 DGaussian Splatting(3 DGS)scene
 mark for object-level scene change detection. 
 representation. Subsequently, we present the overall frame-
 Together, these advancements enhance 3 DGS applications 
 work of our proposed system designed to address this task.
 for long-term robotic operations in dynamic environments. 
 II. RELATEDWORK A. Task Formulation 
 A. 3 D Scene Representation The core objectives of the task are twofold: (1) in a
 Building accurate scene representations is crucial for dynamic environment, construct a 3 DGS representation of
 robotics, with various methods, such as semantic maps [7], the scene and utilize this representation to control the robot
 SLAM [8], and Ne RF [9] being widely used. Compared inaccomplishingdownstreamembodiedtasks,suchasobject
 to these representations, 3 D Gaussian Splatting (3 DGS) navigation; (2) enable the robot to detect object changes in
 provides an explicit, high-fidelity, and real-time renderable thescene and autonomouslycollect data toupdate the 3 DGS
 dense representation. Its ability to simultaneously encode representation. 
 geometric, visual, and semantic information has driven its We focus on dynamic indoor settings where primary
 adoptionin task ssuchas 3 Dreconstruction[3],3 DGS-based structures (e.g., room layouts, large furniture like cabinets
 SLAM [2], and navigation [10]. However, most existing andrefrigerators)staystatic,whilecertainobjects(e.g.,cups,
 applications are restricted to static environments [5], where laptops)exhibitperiodicchanges.Weconsiderthreetypesof
 maps quickly become outdated in the face of scene changes. scene changes: relocation, addition, or removal of objects,
 Akeyadvantageof 3 DGSisitsinherentlyeditablenature, whichencompass the predominant for msofobjectdynamics
 enabling dynamic updates through direct modifications of in real world environments.

 
 
 
 
 Gaussian Mapping Engine Multi-Task Executor 
 Semantic Map ((𝐶+2)×𝑀×𝑀) 
 SAM CLIP obstacles 
 Segmentation category-wise 
 binary grids 
 Object Nav. 
 Autoencoder 
 Encoder Decoder 
 RGB-D Position Feature 
 3 D Gaussians 𝑠 𝜙!"#,𝜙$! 
 Query: 
 Pose GS-LTS Coffee Machine 3 D Localization 
 Change Detection Unit Long-Term Active Scene Updater 
 Adaptive Modeling 
 Pixel Diff. Original 
 Egocentric 
 Gaussians Removal 
 RGB obs. Scene Change 
 Mask 
 ? Addition 
 3 DGS Change Type Relocation 
 rendering Change Position 
 Feature Diff. Active Data Collecting 
 Fig. 2. System Overview. GS-LTS is a modular system designed for long-term service robots, which can adapt to object changes in the dynamic
 environments and update the 3 DGSrepresentationthroughperiodic,automatedoperationof the Change Detection Unit and the Active Scene Updater.
 During task execution, the robot can only access current methods such as object navigation.
 RGB-Ddata and poses from the environment.Consequently, Change Detection Unit. Since the robot must au-
 the robot must rely on single egocentric observations to tonomously detect scene changes relying solely on single
 actively perform change detection and determine whether egocentric observations, we develop the Change Detection
 objects in the scene have changed. Upon detecting scene Unit, a lightweight module designed for long-term standby
 alterations, the robot is further required to autonomously running in parallel with other downstream embodied tasks.
 collect data to update the 3 DGS scene representation. This module compares the robot’s current RGB observation
 with a rendered image generated from the 3 DGS at the
 B. GS-LTS System corresponding pose. By employing a dual-branch strategy
 To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose that analyzes both pixel-level differences and feature-level
 GS-LTS, a 3 DGS-based system tailored for Long-Term differences, the module effectively identifies the type and
 Servicerobotsoperatinginindoorenvironments.Thesystem location of changes between the two compared frames.
 integrates four key modules as shown in Fig. 2. In the fol- Active Scene Updater. Upon detecting scene changes
 lowing, we provide an overview of the system’s operational and their locations, the Active Scene Updater module au-
 workflow,withdetailsofeachmoduleelaboratedin Sec.IV. tonomously collects data and updates the long-term scene
 Gaussian Mapping Engine. This module is tasked with representation.Initially,therobotfollowsarule-basedheuris-
 generating the 3 DGS scene representation for the robot tic policy to navigate around the scene change region,
 during the system’sinitializationphase.Givenasetofmulti- capturing multi-view images. Next, it applies 3 DGS editing
 view RGB images, depth maps, and their corresponding strategies to edit the target region. Finally, the 3 DGS repre-
 camera poses, the module trains a 3 DGS model to effec- sentationisrefinedbyfine-tuning with collectedimages.This
 tively capture the scene’s geometric and visual character- moduleenables GS-LTStoper for msceneupdatesefficiently
 istics. In addition, to incorporate semantic information, we with minimal computational overhead.
 leverage the Segment Anything Model (SAM) [20] and 
 IV. METHODOLOGY 
 open-vocabulary vision-language models (e.g., CLIP [21]) 
 to embed semantic features into the 3 DGS representation. In this section, we introduce the implementation and
 Multi-Task Executor. This module serves as an interface technical details of the GS-LTS system.
 between the dense 3 DGS representation and downstream 
 A. 3 DGS Mapping Engine 
 tasks, enabling the robot to leverage the high-fidelity scene 
 information encoded in the 3 DGS for task planning and In this module, we employ semantic-aware 3 D Gaussian
 execution. For instance, by matching textual features with Splatting (3 DGS) for scene reconstruction. 3 DGS provides
 3 D Gaussian semantic features, this module facilitates 3 D an explicit scene representation through anisotropic Gaus-
 localization for arbitrary text queries. Additionally, it adapts sians characterized by center position µ ∈ R 3, covariance
 the 3 DGSintoa 2 Dsemanticmap for mattosupportexisting matrix Σ ∈ R 3×3, opacity o ∈ R, and color c ∈ SH

 
 
 
 
 represented by spherical harmonics. Through differentiable semantic point cloud is voxelized and flattened along the Z-
 rendering,3 DGSsyn the sizespixelcolorsviaalphablending: axistoforma 2 Dsemanticmap,enablingpathplanning and
 navigation to target categories. 
 N i−1 
 (cid:88) (cid:89) 
 C = c α (1−α ), (1) 
 i i j 
 C. Change Detection Unit 
 i=1 j=1 
 where i ≥ 2 and α depends on o and the projected 2 D Asmentionedin Sec.III-A,thismoduleisdesignedto:(1)
 i i 
 Gaussian’s contribution to the current pixel. detect and classify three types of scene changes; (2) localize
 We refer [4] to extend 3 DGS for semantic fields. First, the target position p world in world coordinates.
 construct the vanilla 3 DGS scene representation. Second, 1) 3 DGS-based Change Detection: The most intuitive
 embedsemanticfeaturesbyleveraging SAM[20]togenerate method for detecting scene change is to analyze the discrep-
 multi-level masks {Ml}3 and extract high-dimensional anciesbetween the real-worldimage and the 3 DGSrendered
 l=1 
 CLIP [21] features Fl = CLIP(I ⊙ Ml) ∈ RD. An image,although 3 DGSenablesphoto-realisticimagerender-
 autoencoder is used to compresses these features into low- ing, there often exist pixel-wise errors with the real-world
 dimensional semantic features Sl = Encoder(Fl) ∈ Rd observation,making the directcomputationofabsolutepixel
 while preserving semantics through reconstruction regular- differencesbetween the twoimagesyieldsub-optimalresults.
 ization Fˆl = Decoder(Sl). The low-dimensional semantic Therefore, following the practice of [19], we employ a
 features are used to supervise the Gaussians’ semantic at- dual-branch strategy for scene change detection. As shown
 tribute sl ∈Rd using view-consistent alpha blending: in Fig.2,given the the real-worldcameracapturedimage I real
 and 3 DGS rendered image I from the current viewpoint,
 N i−1 GS 
 Sˆl = (cid:88) slα (cid:89) (1−α ). (2) wefirstcalculate the sumofabsolutepixeldifferencesacross
 i i j all 3 channels between the two images, which is truncated
 i=1 j=1 
 via threshold τ to obtain the pixel-level binary mask:
 GS 
 Thus, we obtain the semantic-aware 3 DGS representation 
 (cid:18) (cid:19) 
 G = {g }N which enables explicit 3 D semantic repre- (cid:88)3 
 i i=1 M = |I −I |>τ . (4) 
 sentation while maintaining real-time rendering capabilities pixel chn=1 real,chn GS,chn GS
 through the Gaussian representation. 
 Next, we compute normalized Efficient SAM [22] feature
 B. GS Multi-Task Executor maps I and I thatrobustlyrepresentsignificant
 real,SAM GS,SAM 
 regions, then calculate their cosine similarity truncated by
 Below, we illustrate how the 3 DGS representation can be 
 τ to obtain the feature-level binary mask:
 applied to robotic tasks, including 3 D localization and ob- feat 
 ject navigation, which are critical capabilities for numerous 
 M =(⟨I ,I ⟩>τ ). (5) 
 applications and serve to assess the geometric and semantic feat GS,SAM real,SAM feat
 accuracy of 3 DGS scene representation. 
 Finally, the combined binary mask can be obtained using
 1) Semantic Querying and Localization: For an arbitrary 
 pixel-by-pixelmultiplicationof the dual-branchbinarymasks
 textquery,therelevancescorer(ϕ ,ϕ )between the CLIP 
 embeddingϕ and the semanticf q e r a y tur g e i ϕ =Decoder(sl) M comb =M pixel ⊙M feat . We hypo the size that when the total
 qry gi i area of M 
 comb 
 exceeds the threshold τ 
 change 
 , a scene change
 of each 3 D Gaussian is defined as: 
 occurs, thereby triggering scene change prediction.
 min exp(ϕ gi ·ϕ qry ) , (3) 2) Scene Change Prediction: We posit that all potential
 (cid:16) (cid:17) 
 j exp(ϕ ·ϕ )+exp ϕ ·ϕj change regions reside within M comp , where noise areas con-
 gi qry gi canon 
 stitute a small portion. Therefore, we first extract connected
 where ϕj canon is the CLIP embedding of a predefined set components {R i }N i=1 from M comp , sorted in descending
 of canonical phrases, including “object”, “things”, “stuff”, order by their area. Based on the distinct change types, we
 and “texture”. The localization of the query is achieved by hypo the size that: (i) relocation operations are geometrically
 calculating the bounding box of matched Gaussians {g | constrained to the first two largest connected components
 i 
 r(ϕ qry ,ϕ gi ) > τ sim }, where τ sim is a predefined threshold. (R 1 and R 2 ), while (ii) addition/removal operations mani-
 Dueto the largenumberof 3 DGaussiansin the scene,sparse fest exclusively within the dominant connected components
 samplingisappliedinpracticetoper for msemanticquerying. (R 1 ). We first formulate the following dual-region matching
 2) 2 D Semantic Mapping and Navigation: The 3 DGS criterion to identify relocation operation:
 representation can beseamlesslyconvertedintoa 2 Dseman- 
 min(A(R ),A(R )) 
 tic map, ensuring compatibility with existing navigation and Γ match = max(A(R 1 ),A(R 2 )) >τ a (6)
 pathplanningmethods.The 2 Dsemanticmapisrepresented 1 2 
 (cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125)
 as a (L+2)×M×M matrix, where M×M represents the Areasimilarity 
 map size, L is the number of semantic categories, and the ∧ ∥η(R )−η(R )∥ <τ ,
 1 2 2 d 
 additionallayersrepresentobstacles and exploredarea.For L (cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125)
 Spatialdistance 
 navigation-relevant categories, we assign each 3 D Gaussian 
 the category with the highest relevance score. The resulting where A(·)denotesregionarea,η(·)forcentroidcoordinates.

 
 
 
 
 Then, for the largest connected components R , we com- where π(·) is the projection function, the target Gaussians
 1 
 pute its centroid p =(u ,v ), and sample depth from real- are selected based on the proportion ρ of its presence within
 c c c 
 world depth map D and 3 DGS rendered depth map D : the mask region: G ={g |V(g )>ρ·K}.
 cam GS target i i 
 (cid:40) The workflow of our pre-editing method is as follows:
 d =D (p ) 
 real real c (7) For addition: 
 d =D (p ) 
 GS GS c i. Generate object points P = {p } via depth map
 add j 
 The change type is determined through depth difference: {D real,k ⊙M comb,k }K k=1 .
 ii. Pass new semantic feature s . 
  manual 
  Addition, ∆d<−ϵ iii. Find nearest neighbors and inherit attributes:
 ∆d=d real −d GS ⇒Type= Removal, ∆d>ϵ (8) a) For each p j ∈P add : g n j n =argmin∥µ m −p j ∥ 2 ,
 Unchanged, 
 |∆d|≤ϵ gm∈G 
 b) Extract covariance matrix Σj , opacity oj and color
 nn nn 
 To obtain p world , here we construct a pseudo depth map cj nn from g n j n .
 D (u,v) = min(D (u,v),D (u,v)), then generate 
 pseudo real GS iv. Create new Gaussians G and insert to G:
 camera-coordinate key point p ∈R 3 based on event type: add 
  cam Addition/ G add = (cid:8) g i (cid:12) (cid:12)(p j ,Σj nn ,oj nn ,cj nn ,s manual ) (cid:9) . (12)
  [u 
 c 
 ,v 
 c 
 ,D 
 pseudo 
 (u 
 c 
 ,v 
 c 
 )]⊤, 
 Removal For removal: 
 p cam =  1 2 
 + 
 (cid:0) 
 [ 
 [ 
 c 
 c 
 ( 
 ( 
 R 
 R 1 
 ) 
 ) 
 ; 
 ; 
 D 
 D pseudo 
 ( 
 ( 
 c 
 c 
 ( 
 ( 
 R 
 R 1 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ) 
 ] 
 ] 
 (cid:1)⊤ 
 , Relocation (9) i i i . . D 
 m 
 G e e 
 a 
 l n 
 p 
 e e t 
 { 
 r e a 
 D 
 t G e ta h rg o et le 
 ⊙ 
 fr i o n 
 M 
 m pa G in . tin 
 } 
 g 
 K 
 poi 
 . 
 nts P 
 fill 
 = {p 
 j 
 } via depth 
 2 pseudo 2 real,k comb,k k=1 
 iii. Find nearest neighbors and inherit attributes:
 Then, p can be calculated using camera-to-world 
 trans for mat w io or n ld matrix Tworld: a) For each p j ∈P fill : g n j n =argmin∥µ m −p j ∥ 2 ,
 cam 
 (cid:20) p (cid:21) b) Extract covariance matrix Σ g j m , ∈ o G pacity oj , color cj
 p =Tworld· cam . (10) nn nn nn 
 world cam 1 and semantic sj from gj . 
 nn nn 
 D. Active Scene Updater iv. Create new Gaussians G add and insert into G:
 1) Active Data Collection: Wedesignarule-basedheuris- G 
 add 
 = (cid:8) g 
 i 
 (cid:12) (cid:12)(p 
 j 
 ,Σj 
 nn 
 ,oj 
 nn 
 ,cj 
 nn 
 ,sj 
 nn 
 ) (cid:9) . (13)
 ticpolicytoenable the robottoautonomouslycaptureimages 
 For relocation: 
 of scene change regions. The core of this policy involves 
 i. Obtain G and extract colors and semantics C,S =
 positioningtherobottoface the targetregion,with the region target 
 {c ,s |g ∈G }. 
 as the circle’s center, and moving left or right along the j j j target 
 ii. Delete G and generate target points P via depth
 tangential direction. The robot first adjusts its distance from target dest 
 map {D ⊙M }K at destination. 
 thetargetregiontoensureasuccessfultangentialmovement. real,k comb,k k=1 
 After each movement, the robot reorients its viewpoint iii. For each p j ∈P dest , g n j n =argmin∥µ m −p j ∥ 2 , create
 toward the target and readjustsitsdistancetocaptureimages. new Gaussians G and inse g rt m i ∈ n G to G:
 add 
 Following this policy, the robot first moves K/2 steps to the 
 left, then K steps to the right, collecting images {I real,i }K i=1 , G add = (cid:8) g i (cid:12) (cid:12)(p i ,Σj nn ,oj nn ,c nn ∼C,s nn ∼S) (cid:9) . (14)
 depth maps {D }K and camera poses {T }K from K 
 real,i i=1 i i=1 iv. Hole inpainting to source region as aforementioned.
 viewpoints of the scene change region during the process. 
 Finally, we perform post-training to further fine-tune the
 Next,therobotobtainscombinedmasks{M }K using 
 comb,k k=1 Gaussians and refine the reconstruct quality.
 the method in Sec. IV-C.2. 
 2) Gaussian Editing based Scene Update: We adopt a V. EXPERIMENTS 
 pre-editing and fine-tuning strategy to achieve scene update. 
 Thissectiondetailsacomprehensiveevaluationof GS-LTS
 Distinct pre-editing protocols are implemented for different 
 across simulation and real-world settings.
 scene change types: (i) For Addition, we directly instanti- 
 ate new Gaussians in target region; (ii) For Removal, we A. Scene Change Adaptation Benchmark
 first localize target objects and then prune the associated 1) Settings: To assess the robot’s ability to adapt to
 Gaussians followed by scene inpainting to fix the hole; scene changes in dynamic environments, we present a novel
 (iii) For Relocation, we execute a delete-then-add strategy Scene Change Adaptation Benchmark constructed on the
 that removes the associated Gaussians and then instantiate AI 2-THOR simulation platform [23]. AI 2-THOR offers a
 new Gaussians in target region. To identify the associated comprehensive suite of APIs such as Initial Random Spawn,
 Gaussians, we refer to [11] for defining a voting function V Disable Object, and Place Object At Point that facilitate direct
 that localizes target Gaussians within {M comb,k }K k=1 , manipulation of scene objects, which we exploit to design
 three distinct types of scene update tasks: relocation, ad-
 K 
 V(g )= (cid:88) I(cid:2) π(T µ )∈{M }K (cid:3) , (11) dition, and removal of objects. The benchmark is gener-
 i k i comb,k k=1 
 ated by automatically traversing combinations of editable
 k=1 

 
 
 
 
 TABLEI 
 SCENEUPDATEQUALITYEVALUATEDBYIMAGERENDERINGMETRICS(250 FINE-TUNINGITERATIONS).
 addition relocation removal overall 
 Method View 
 SSIM↑ PSNR↑ LPIPS↓ SSIM↑ PSNR↑ LPIPS↓ SSIM↑ PSNR↑ LPIPS↓ SSIM↑ PSNR↑ LPIPS↓
 near 0.87 24.74 0.24 0.89 25.94 0.22 0.91 29.79 0.20 0.89 27.20 0.22 
 Baseline 
 far 0.88 25.52 0.20 0.89 26.23 0.19 0.91 28.64 0.17 0.89 27.04 0.19 
 near 0.88 26.60 0.22 0.91 28.58 0.19 0.93 32.08 0.17 0.91 29.40 0.19 
 GS-LTS 
 far 0.89 26.93 0.18 0.90 28.04 0.17 0.92 30.55 0.15 0.90 28.74 0.16 
    
    
    
    
    
    
                      
  , W H U D W L R Q 
  5 1 6 3 
  1 H D U  ) D U 
    
    
    
    
    
  % D V H O L Q H  % D V H O L Q H 
  * 6  / 7 6     * 6  / 7 6 
                      
  , W H U D W L R Q 
 Fig.3. Impactoffine-tuningiterationsonsceneupdatequality. 
 objects, containers, and placement positions, which enables 
 GT Baseline 100 Iter GS-LTS 100 Iter Baseline 250 Iter GS-LTS 250 Iter
 the sampling of an extensive range of scene changes. Each 
 scene change task is recorded via a configuration script 
 containing environment meta data (e.g., initial viewpoint) 
 and a sequential action list specifying the operations to 
 trans for mobjects from theirdefaultstateto the updatedstate. 
 Additionally,each task involves 20 testviewpointscapturing 
 the scene change region (10 near-range and 10 far-range). 
 As changed objects typically occupy a small fraction of the 
 field of view, we generate test images by exp and ing ground- 
 truth change bounding boxes by 50 pixels in all directions. 
 Scene update quality is then assessed using PSNR, SSIM, 
 and LPIPS metrics. 
 For evaluation, the robot is initialized at the starting pose 
 of each scene change task. The Change Detection Unit is 
 first executed to generate predictions, after which we assess 
 whetherthepredictedscenechangetypematches the ground- 
 truth type and whether the prediction error of the scene 
 change region is within 1 meter. For tasks with accurate 
 predictions,active data collection and Gaussianediting-based 
 scene update are per for med. During scene representation 
 updates, GS-LTS first employs pre-editing method, followed 
 by fine-tuning of 3 DGS to refine object geometry and visual 
 details. In contrast, the baseline method directly fine-tunes 
 3 DGS using multi-view data collected by GS-LTS. 
 In this experiment, we sample 459 scene change tasks, 
 achieving a 74.5% accuracy in predicting change type and 
 target region with GS-LTS. Scene updates are tested on 342 
 tasks,withresultsafter 250 fine-tuningiterationsreportedin 
 Table I. Experimental results demonstrate that our method 
 achieves superior per for mance for both type of viewpoints, 
 outper for ming the baseline across all metrics. 
 Additionally,asshownin Fig.3,weevaluatevariousfine- 
 tuning iterations and statistically analyze the overall PSNR 
 metrics for both type of viewpoints. The results demon- 
 strate that ourapproachconsistentlyoutperforms the baseline 
 across all settings. Notably, GS-LTS achieves superior scene 
 update quality with fewer fine-tuning iterations, highlighting 
 noitidd A 
 noitacole R 
 lavome R 
 Fig.4. Renderingresultsafterdifferentfine-tuningiterations.
 TABLEII 
 3 DLOCALIZATIONRESULTS(BOTTOMPART FOR ABLATIONSTUDY).
 Feature Source m Io U Acc(Io U>0.5) Acc(Io U>0.3)
 CLIP 40.6 42.9 52.1 
 GT 60.9 73.6 81.8 
 CLIP(300×300 res) 24.6 29.0 30.7 
 CLIP(8 dim) 32.2 35.7 43.3 
 CLIP(60%data) 36.6 41.1 46.1 
 its ability to deliver efficient, low-cost scene updates. Fig. 4
 presents the quantitative results of GS-LTS, showcasing one
 representative case from each of three scene changes. The
 rendering results more intuitively demonstrate that GS-LTS
 achieves superior and faster scene update capabilities, while
 the baseline method requires signifi can tly more iterations to
 obtain comparable outcomes. 
 B. Multi-Task Experiment 
 To assess the geometry and semantic fidelity of GS-LTS,
 we conduct experiments on 3 D localization and object nav-
 igation. We evaluate two 3 DGS representations embedding
 ground-truth semantics and CLIP semantics, denoted as GS-
 LTS (GT) and GS-LTS (CLIP), respectively.
 1) 3 D Localization: For the 3 D localization task, se-
 mantic quality is quantitatively assessed by calculating the
 Intersection over Union (Io U) of the 3 D bounding boxes.
 A 3 D bounding box is deemed accurately localized if its
 Io U with the ground-truth bounding box exceeds a pre-
 defined threshold. Based on this criterion, we compute
 the Acc (Io U>threshold) metric to evaluate localization
 accuracy. We evaluate localization per for mance across 12
 differentobjectcategories,including Alarm Clock,Arm Chair,
 Bed, Bread, Chair, Coffee Machine, Desk Lamp, Dining Table,
 Dresser, Dumbbell, Remote Control and Sofa.
 Asshownin the toppartof Table II,GS-LTS(GT)signif-
 icantly outperforms GS-LTS (CLIP) in terms of both m Io U

 
 
 
 
 Bread Laptop Alarm Clock 
 
 Robot 
 View 
 Fig. 5. 3 D Localization Examples. Red bounding boxes indicate the 
 results from GS-LTS(GT),whilegreenones from GS-LTS(CLIP). 
 TABLEIII 
 OBJECTNAVIGATIONRESULTSACROSSTHREEROOMTYPES. 
 kitchen livingroom bedroom overall 
 Method 
 SPL SR SPL SR SPL SR SPL SR 
 SAVN[6] 17.8 43.6 7.7 21.6 8.7 29.2 11.4 31.5 
 GVE[24] 17.9 45.6 9.4 25.2 8.1 27.6 11.8 32.8 
 HZG[25] 48.7 74.6 41.5 60.7 32.2 59.1 40.8 64.8 
 GS-LTS(CLIP) 45.7 59.0 40.0 52.2 41.5 54.6 42.2 55.3 
 GS-LTS(GT) 64.0 86.4 68.4 90.3 44.8 56.4 59.1 77.7 
 Fig. 6. Object Navigation Examples. The mid row displays semantic
 and accuracy metrics, highlighting the critical importance maps and navigationtrajectoriesgeneratedby GS-LTS(CLIP),thebottom
 rowillustrates the correspondingoutputsof GS-LTS(GT).
 of precise semantic cues. Fig. 5 presents qualitative results 
 for the 3 D localization task. The 3 D bounding boxes gener- Step 1: Change Detection Step 3: 3 DGS Update
 3 DGS Rendered Image Current Observation Old GS
 ated by GS-LTS (GT) generally exhibit a closer alignment 
 with the objects compared to those generated by GS-LTS Change 
 Detection 
 (CLIP). These precise bounding boxes further highlight the 
 advantages and potential of employing 3 DGS as a scene 
 representation. 
 2) Object Navigation: For the object navigation task, we Change Detection Unit
 update 
 adopt the experimental protocol proposed by SAVN [6], 
 with a modification to limit the evaluation to three scene 
 types: kitchens, living rooms, and bedrooms. Bathrooms are 
 excludeddueto the irconstrainedspatial scale and simplistic 
 layouts.Per for manceisassessedusing the Successweighted 
 by Path Length (SPL) and Success Rate (SR). Step 2: Active Data Collection 
 We comp are GS-LTS with classical methods. Notably, New GS 
 these classical methods trained on the AI 2 THOR involve Fig.7. Realrobotper for mingscenechangeadaptation.
 exploration and navigation within a single episode. In con- 
 an average of 670 images to 60% of the data lowers m Io U
 trast, GS-LTS leverages prebuilt 3 DGS representations and 
 by 4.0%. Notably, CLIP features computed from SAM-
 performs training-free navigation directly from a 2 D seman- 
 segmented masks rely heavily on high-resolution images for
 tic map, employing a deterministic policy (Fast Marching 
 small object recognition. While smaller data volume affect
 Method). This experimental setup is designed to validate the 
 fine details, the impact is minimal for objects visible from
 feasibility of 3 DGS-based robotic navigation using existing 
 multiple viewpoints, such that overall per for mance decline
 benchmark. As shown in Table III, GS-LTS (GT) outper- 
 remains limited. 
 forms other approaches across most metrics, while GS-LTS 
 (CLIP) also demonstrates competitive per for mance, particu- 
 D. Application in Real-world Robot System
 larly on the SPL metric. Semantic maps and trajectories for 
 three example navigation tasks are illustrated in Fig. 6. Todemonstrate the real-worldapplicabilityof the GS-LTS
 system, we conducted experiments with a real robot. We
 C. Ablation Study 
 utilize a Microsoft Azure Kinect DK camera to scan a pre-
 To examine the effect of initial training data on 3 DGS arrangedroom,capturing data totraina 3 DGSrepresentation
 representations, we perform an ablation study on the 3 D of the scene. Unlike simulation environments, where precise
 localization task, with results reported in the bottom part robot poses can be obtained directly from an environment
 of Table II. We analyze how reduced image resolution, API, such information is unavailable in real-world settings.
 feature dimension and data volume affect GS-LTS (CLIP) To address this, we augment the GS-LTS system with a
 per for mance. Experiments reveal that lowering resolution relocalizationmoduletailored for real-worldoperation.Here,
 from 1,000×1,000 to 300×300 decreases m Io U by 16.0% we first obtain a coarse pose estimation through ORB visual
 andsignifi can tlyreducesaccuracy.Decreasing the featuredi- featurematching,thenemployi Com Ma[26]toper for mpose
 mension from 32 to 8 resultsinaper for mancedropofm Io U refinement to obtain an optimized precise pose estimation.
 from 40.6%to 32.2%,indicating that lower-dimensionalrep- To assess the robot’s ability to adapt to scene changes,
 resentationsdegradethequalityof the learnedlatentspace,as we reposition three stacked colored storage bins within the
 convergenceofautoencodersbecomesmorechallenging with room. As the robot approaches the vicinity of the bins,
 8-dimensional features. Reducing the training dataset from the Change Detection Unit identifies discrepancies in the

 
 
 
 
 current scene. It then actively collects multi-view images to [4] M. Qin, W. Li, J. Zhou, H. Wang, and H. Pfister, “Langsplat: 3 d
 update 3 DGS. Fig. 7 illustrates the changes in the 3 DGS languagegaussiansplatting,”in CVPR,2024,pp.20051–20060.
 [5] S. Zhu, G. Wang, D. Kong, and H. Wang, “3 d gaussian splatting in
 representation and rendered images before and after the 
 robotics:Asurvey,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2410.12262,2024.
 adaptation. These results validate that the GS-LTS system [6] M.Wortsman,K.Ehsani,M.Rastegari,A.Farhadi,and R.Mottaghi,
 caneffectivelyoperateinreal-worldenvironments and adapt “Learningtolearnhowtolearn:Self-adaptivevisualnavigationusing
 meta-learning,”in CVPR,2019,pp.6750–6759.
 todynamicscenechanges.Foradetailedexperimentalvideo, 
 [7] D. S. Chaplot, D. P. Gandhi, A. Gupta, and R. R. Salakhutdinov,
 please refer to our website. “Objectgoalnavigationusinggoal-orientedsemanticexploration,”in
 Neur IPS,2020,pp.4247–4258. 
 VI. DISCUSSION [8] X.Chen,A.Milioto,E.Palazzolo,P.Giguere,J.Behley,and C.Stach-
 niss, “Suma++: Efficient lidar-based semantic slam,” in IROS, 2019,
 A. Resource Overhead pp.4530–4537. 
 [9] B.Mildenhall,P.P.Srinivasan,M.Tancik,J.T.Barron,R.Ramamoor-
 Theentiresystemoperatesefficientlyonasingle NVIDIA 
 thi, and R. Ng, “Nerf: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields
 Ge Force RTX 4090 GPU. The GS-LTS system completes forviewsyn the sis,”Communicationsof the ACM,vol.65,no.1,pp.
 vanilla 3 DGS reconstruction in ∼15 minutes, with subse- 99–106,2021. 
 [10] R.Jin,Y.Gao,Y.Wang,Y.Wu,H.Lu,C.Xu,and F.Gao,“Gs-planner:
 quent 32 dimensional Gaussian semantic learning requiring 
 Agaussian-splatting-basedplanningframework for activehigh-fidelity
 ∼1 hour. Our experiments show 250 training iterations reconstruction,”in IROS. IEEE,2024,pp.11202–11209.
 achieve superior scene updates (0.91 SSIM / 29.07 PSNR) [11] Y. Chen, Z. Chen, C. Zhang, F. Wang, X. Yang, Y. Wang, Z. Cai,
 L.Yang,H.Liu,and G.Lin,“Gaussianeditor:Swift and controllable
 versus 1,000-iteration baselines, with ≤10 s training. 
 3 dediting with gaussiansplatting,”in CVPR,2024,pp.21476–21485.
 [12] L. Kunze, N. Hawes, T. Duckett, M. Hanheide, and T. Krajn´ık,
 B. Limitation and Future Work 
 “Artificialintelligence for long-termrobotautonomy:Asurvey,”RAL,
 vol.3,no.4,pp.4023–4030,2018. 
 The GS-LTS system advances adaptive modeling for 
 [13] C.P.Jones,“Slocumgliderpersistentoceanography,”in AUV. IEEE,
 3 DGS-based robotic systems in long-term dynamic envi- 2012,pp.1–6. 
 ronments, yet several challenges remain before achieving [14] N. Hawes, C. Burbridge, F. Jovan, L. Kunze, B. Lacerda, L. Mu-
 drova, J. Young, J. Wyatt, D. Hebesberger, T. Kortner, et al., “The
 widespread real-world deployment. Below, we discuss key 
 str and sproject:Long-termautonomyineverydayenvironments,”IEEE
 limitations and promising directions for improvement. Robotics&Automation Magazine,vol.24,no.3,pp.146–156,2017.
 First, efficient large-scale representation is a challenge for [15] M.Hanheide,D.Hebesberger,and T.Krajn´ık,“Thewhen,where,and
 how: An adaptive robotic info-terminal for care home residents,” in
 vanilla 3 DGS, which struggles with expansive scenes like 
 HRI,2017,pp.341–349. 
 factories, requiring more storage-efficient solutions. [16] P.F.Alcantarilla,S.Stent,G.Ros,R.Arroyo,and R.Gherardi,“Street-
 Second, robot control could be improved with learning- view change detection with deconvolutional networks,” Autonomous
 Robots,vol.42,pp.1301–1322,2018. 
 based policies to enhance adaptability in complex scenarios. 
 [17] E. Palazzolo and C. Stachniss, “Fast image-based geometric change
 Finally, highly dynamic environments present an addi- detectiongivena 3 dmodel,”in ICRA. IEEE,2018,pp.6308–6315.
 tional challenge. GS-LTS focuses on medium-term changes, [18] J.Wald,A.Avetisyan,N.Navab,F.Tombari,and M.Nießner,“Rio:
 3 d object instance re-localization in changing indoor environments,”
 not real-time dynamics like moving objects or human in- 
 in ICCV,2019,pp.7658–7667. 
 teractions. Future 3 DGS-based dynamic reconstruction will [19] Z. Lu, J. Ye, and J. Leonard, “3 dgs-cd: 3 d gaussian splatting-based
 enhance support for tasks like cooking or household assis- change detection for physical object rearrangement,” IEEE Robotics
 and Automation Letters,2025. 
 tance, improving more realistic long-term autonomy. 
 [20] A. Kirillov, E. Mintun, N. Ravi, H. Mao, C. Roll and, L. Gustafson,
 T. Xiao, S. Whitehead, A. C. Berg, W.-Y. Lo, et al., “Segment
 VII. CONCLUSIONS 
 anything,”in ICCV,2023,pp.4015–4026. 
 In this work, we introduce GS-LTS, a 3 DGS-based sys- [21] A.Radford,J.W.Kim,C.Hallacy,A.Ramesh,G.Goh,S.Agarwal,
 G.Sastry,A.Askell,P.Mishkin,J.Clark,etal.,“Learningtransferable
 tem designed for long-term service robots operating in 
 visualmodels from naturallanguagesupervision,”in ICML. Pm LR,
 dynamic environments. By integrating object-level change 2021,pp.8748–8763. 
 detection, multi-view observation, and efficient Gaussian [22] Y.Xiong,B.Varadarajan,L.Wu,X.Xiang,F.Xiao,C.Zhu,X.Dai,
 D.Wang,F.Sun,F.Iandola,etal.,“Efficientsam:Leveragedmasked
 editing-basedsceneupdates,GS-LTSenablesrobotstoadapt 
 imagepretraining for efficientsegmentanything,”in CVPR,2024,pp.
 to scene variations over time. Additionally, we propose a 16111–16121. 
 scalable simulation benchmark for evaluating object-level [23] E. Kolve, R. Mottaghi, W. Han, E. Vander Bilt, L. Weihs, A. Her-
 rasti, D. Gordon, Y. Zhu, A. Gupta, and A. Farhadi, “AI 2-THOR:
 scenechanges,facilitatingsystematicassessment and sim-to- 
 An Interactive 3 D Environment for Visual AI,” ar Xiv preprint
 real transfer. Experimental results demonstrate that GS-LTS ar Xiv:1712.05474,2017.
 achieves faster and higher-quality scene updates, advancing [24] M. K. Moghaddam, Q. Wu, E. Abbasnejad, and J. Shi, “Optimistic
 agent: Accurate graph-based value estimation for more successful
 the applicability of 3 DGS for long-term robotic operations. 
 visualnavigation,”in WACV,2021,pp.3733–3742.
 [25] Y. He and K. Zhou, “Relation-wise trans for mer network and re-
 REFERENCES inforcement learning for visual navigation,” Neural Computing and
 Applications,vol.36,no.21,pp.13205–13221,2024.
 [1] B.Kerbl,G.Kopanas,T.Leimku¨hler,and G.Drettakis,“3 dgaussian 
 [26] Y.Sun,X.Wang,Y.Zhang,J.Zhang,C.Jiang,Y.Guo,and F.Wang,
 splatting for real-timeradiancefieldrendering.”ACMTrans.Graph., 
 “icomma:Inverting 3 dgaussiansplatting for cameraposeestimation
 vol.42,no.4,pp.139–1,2023. viacomparing and matching,”ar Xivpreprintar Xiv:2312.09031,2023.
 [2] N. Keetha, J. Karhade, K. M. Jatavallabhula, G. Yang, S. Scherer, 
 D.Ramanan,and J.Luiten,“Splatam:Splattrack&map 3 dgaussians 
 fordensergb-dslam,”in CVPR,2024,pp.21357–21366. 
 [3] K. Wu, K. Zhang, Z. Zhang, M. Tie, S. Yuan, J. Zhao, Z. Gan, and 
 W.Ding,“Hgs-mapping:Onlinedensemappingusinghybridgaussian 
 representationinurbanscenes,”RAL,2024. 