 
 
 
 
 
 
 Learning Robot Activities from First-Person Human Videos 
 Using Convolutional Future Regression 
 
 
 Jangwon Lee and Michael S. Ryoo 
 
 
 Abstract—We design a new approach that allows robot a limiting aspect particularly when we want to teach a robot
 learning of new activities from unlabeled human example new (i.e., previously unseen) activities.
 videos.Givenvideosofhumansexecuting the sameactivity from 
 In this paper, we present a new CNN-based approach
 ahuman’sviewpoint(i.e.,first-personvideos),ourobjectiveisto 
 that enables robot learning of its activities from ‘human’
 maketherobotlearnthetemporalstructureof the activityasits 
 futureregressionnetwork,andlearntotransfersuch model for example videos. Human activity videos can be attractive
 itsownmotorexecution.Wepresenta new deeplearning model: training res our ces because it does not require any hardw are
 We extend the state-of-the-art convolutional object detection or professional softw are for teaching robots, even though
 network for the representation/estimation of human hands in 
 it might create other difficulties like transferring learned
 trainingvideos,and new lyintroduce the conceptofusingafully 
 human-based models to the actual robots. Given videos
 convolutionalnetworktoregress(i.e.,predict)theintermediate 
 scene representation corresponding to the future frame (e.g., of humans executing the same activity from a human’s
 1-2 seconds later). Combining these allows direct prediction of viewpoint (i.e., first-person videos), our objective is to make
 futurelocationsofhumanhands and objects,whichenables the the robot learn the temporal structure of the activity as its
 robot to infer the motor control plan using our manipulation 
 future regression network, and learn to transfer such model
 network. We experimentally confirm that our approach makes 
 foritsownmotorexecution.Theideais that ahuman’sfirst-
 learning of robot activities from unlabeled human interaction 
 videos possible, and demonstrate that our robot is able to person video and the video a humanoid robot is expected to
 execute the learnedcollaborativeactivitiesinreal-timedirectly obtain during its activity execution should be very similar.
 based on its camera input. Providing first-person human videos to the robot is as if we
 are providing the robot ‘visual memory’ of itself per for ming
 I. INTRODUCTION 
 the activities previously. This enables the robot to directly
 One of the important abilities of humans (and animals) is 
 learnwhatvisualobservationitisexpectedtoseeduring the
 that they are able to learn new activities and their motor 
 correctexecutionof the activity and howit will change from
 controls from others’ behaviors. When a person watches 
 its viewpoint. 
 others per for ming an activity, he/she not only learns to 
 There have beenpreviousworksonrobotactivitylearning
 visually predict future consequences of the motion during 
 from human videos [3], [4], extending the previous concept
 the activity but also learns how to execute the activity 
 of‘robotlearning from demonstration’[5]whichwasmostly
 himself/herself. 
 done with direct motor control data. However, these works
 Recently, approaches taking advantage of “deep learning” 
 focused on learning grammar representations of human ac-
 for robot manipulation have been gaining an increasing 
 tivities, modeling human activities as a sequence of atomic
 amount of attention, directly learning motor control policies 
 actions (e.g., grasping). These approaches were limited in
 given visual inputs (i.e., images and videos) [1]. The use of 
 the aspect that activities were always represented in terms
 convolutionalneuralnetworks(CNNs)have been particularly 
 of pre-defined set of atomic actions, and the users had to
 successful,since the yareabletojointlylearnimagefeatures 
 teach the robot how to recognize those atomic actions from
 optimized for the task based on their training data. Because 
 humanactivityvideosbyprovidinglabeledtraining data(i.e.,
 of such ability, new models incorporating convolutional and 
 supervised learning). This prevented the robot learning of
 recurrent neural networks (i.e., CNNs and RNNs) is likely 
 activities from scratch, and was also limited in that human
 to become a major trend in robotics, just like what already 
 had to define new atomic actions when a new activity is
 happened in computer vision and machine learning. 
 added. Fur the rmore, since it was not trainable in an end-to-
 However, although these deep learning oriented ap- 
 end fashion, the robot has to somehow figure out how to
 proaches showed very promising results on learning video 
 execute those atomic actions, which was usually done by
 prediction [2] and actual motor control policy [1], they 
 hand-coding the motion. 
 have been limited to relatively simple actions such as object 
 We introduce a new robot activity learning model using
 grasping and pushing. This is because a large amount of 
 a fully convolutional network for future representation re-
 ‘robot’dataisnecessary for the directtrainingofthese CNNs 
 gression. We extend the state-of-the-art convolutional object
 and RNNs with millions of parameters. A large number of 
 detection network (SSD [6]) for the representation of hu-
 samplesofhumans(ortherobotitself)motorcontrolling the 
 man hand-object information in a video frame, and newly
 robotisnecessary for generatingtraining data[1],andthisis 
 introduce the concept of using a fully convolutional network
 to regress (i.e., predict) how such intermediate scene repre-
 Schoolof Informatics and Computing,Indiana University,Bloomington, 
 IN 47408,USA.{leejang,mryoo}@indiana.edu sentation will change in the future frame (e.g., 1-2 seconds
 7102 
 lu J 
 42 
 ]OR.sc[ 
 2 v 04010.3071:vi Xra 

 
 
 
 
 𝑓 
 𝑔 ℎ 
 VGG-16 Future hand 
 Through Pool 5 layer Autoencoder Extra Feature Layers Location prediction
 
 Convolution Deconvolution 
 
 500 Replaced with 
 Image predicted future 
 feature map 
 500 
 … 
 512 x 63 x 63 512 x 63 x 63 
 Extracted feature map 256 x 25 x 25 256 x 25 x 25 
 Current Regression Network s 
 s 
 Feature map 𝑟 o L 
 )2 
 L 
 Concatenate (K) 
 ( 
 n 
 a 
 e 
 d 
 5 x 5 5 x 5 5 x 5 1 x 1 ilc 
 u 
 E 
 Predicted 
 (256 x K) x 25 x 25 256 x 25 x 25 256 x 25 x 25 … 1024 x 25 x 25256 x 25 x 25 future
 feature map 
 Future 
 Feature map 
 Fig. 1. Overview of our perception component: Our perception component consists of two fully convolutional neural networks: The first network is
 anextendedversionof the state-of-the-artconvolutionalobjectdetectionnetwork(SSD[6])for the representationofhumanhands and estimationof the
 boundingboxes(top).Thesecondnetworkisafutureregressionnetworktoregress(i.e.,predict)theintermediatescenerepresentationcorrespondingto
 thefutureframe.Thisnetworkdoesnotrequireactivitylabelsorh and/objectlabelsinvideos for itstraining.
 later). Combining these allows direct and explicit prediction from demonstration (Lf D) [5], [8], [9]. Since it enables
 of future hand locations (Figure 1), which then allows the robots automatically learn a new task from demonstration
 robot to infer the motor control plan. That is, not only by non-robotics expert, Lf D is very important in robotics.
 feature-level prediction of future representations (similar to However,there are limitationssincemostof the seapproaches
 [7])butalsosemantic-levelpredictionofexplicitfutureh and focused on making robots learn motor control polices from
 locations of humans and robots during the learned activity human data, which usually was in the form of direct control
 is being jointly per for med in our new network. Such future sequences obtained with actual robots or simulation soft-
 handpredictionresults are usedby our manipulationnetwork wares [10]. Moreover, it often requires a knowledge about
 that learns mapping of the 2-D hand locations in the image all primitive actions for teaching high-level tasks [11].
 coordinate to the actual motor control. There also have been previous works on robot activity
 Our activity learning is an unsupervised approach in the learning from visual data [3], [4], [12], extending the previ-
 aspect that it does not require activity labels or hand/object ous concept of Lf D. These works focused on learning gram-
 labels in the activity videos. It does require hand-annotated mar representations of human activities from conventional
 training data for the learning of its hand representation third-person videos (i.e., videos usually taken with static
 network, but there already exists public datasets for this cameras watching the actors), modeling human activities
 purpose and it does not require any labels for its future as a sequence of atomic actions (e.g., grasping). Having a
 regressionnetwork.Thefutureregressionnetworkislearned grammar representation composed of atomic actions allows
 without supervision by capturing changes in our hand-based transfer of human activity structure to robots, and the robot
 representations in the training videos. In addition, impor- replication of human activities was possible usually with
 tantly,all our networks were designedtofunctioninreal-time hand-coded motion transfer from human atomic actions
 for the actual robot operation, and we show such capability to robot atomic actions. However, activity learning was
 with our experiments in this paper. generally done in a fully supervised fashion with human
 annotations in these approaches, and they assumed very
 II. RELATEDWORK 
 reliable estimation of semantic features from videos such
 a) Robot learning from humans: There have been a human hands and human body skeletons. [13] studied an
 considerable amount of previous efforts on robot learning approach to directly learn object manipulation trajectories

 
 
 
 
 from human videos, but it was limited to one-robot-one- a hand-based scene representation and estimate bounding
 object scenarios unlike our approach focusing on very boxes,and(2)afutureregressionnetworkto model howsuch
 general human-robot collaboration scenarios (e.g., human- intermediate scene representation (should) change in future
 object-robot interactions). frames.Thesecondcomponentisamanipulationcomponent
 b) Video prediction: Our approach in this paper is to that maps 2-D hand locations in the image coordinate to the
 generate proper robot behaviors (particularly for human- actual motor control using fully connected layers.
 robot collaboration) by predicting ‘future’ visual represen- The key idea of our approach is that the proposed per-
 tation. The idea is that such representation leads to the ception component allows prediction of future (1-2 seconds
 estimationoffuturepositionsofobjectsandh and sofhumans later)handlocationsgivencurrentvideoinput from acamera.
 and robots. Visual prediction is one of the core components Suchfutureprediction can belearned base donhumans’first-
 of our perception system. person activity videos by using them as training data, with
 There have beenpreviousworkson the predictionoffuture theassumption that the robotcamerahasasimilarviewpoint
 frames from the computer vision community [7], [14], [15]. with the human first-person videos. This allows the robot
 However, there has been very limited attempt on applying to directly predict its ideal future hand locations during the
 such future predictions for robotics systems, since these ap- activity, inferring how the hand should move if the activity
 proaches in general requires more components for interpret- were to be executed successfully. Next, the manipulation
 ing predicted representation to generate robot actions. In the componentgeneratesactualrobotcontrolcomm and stomove
 above works, no robot manipulation was actually attempted. the robot’s hands to the predicted future locations.
 There exists a recent robotics work that attempted applying 
 B. Perception Component 
 visual prediction for generating robot control actions [16]. 
 This study shows the potential in applying visual predic- Given a video frame Xˆ t at time t, the goal of our
 tion for a robotic manipulation task; it enables transferring perception component is to predict the future hand locations
 the visual perception to robot manipulation component for Yˆ t+∆ . 
 generating motor control commands without any additional a) Hand Representation Network: We first construct
 componentstointerpret the recognitionresults.However,this a network for the hand-based representation of the image
 requiresahugeamountoftraining data usingactualphysical scenebyextending the SSDobjectdetectionframework.We
 robots to make the robot learn activities, and thus is limited extended it by inserting a fully convolutional auto-encoder
 when the robot needs to learn many new activities. having five convolutional layers followed by five deconvo-
 c) First-person videos: First-person videos, also called lutional layers for dimensionality reduction. This allows the
 egocentric videos, are the videos taken from the actor’s own approach to abstract an image (with hands and objects) into
 viewpoint. Recognition of human/robot activities from such a lower dimensional intermediate representation.
 first-person videos has been actively studied particularly in All our convolutional/deconvolutionallayersuse 5×5 ker-
 thepast 5 years,includingrecognitionofhumanactions from nels and the number of filters for each convolutional layer
 wearable cameras [17]–[20] and human-robot interactions are:512,256,128,64,256.Thegreenconvolutionallayersin
 from robot cameras [21], [22]. However, these focused on Fig. 1 correspond to them. After such convolutional layers,
 building discriminative video classifiers, and the attempt to there are deconvolutional layers (yellow layers in Fig. 1),
 learn‘executable’representationsofhumanactivitiesortheir each having the symmetric number of filters: 256, 64, 128,
 transfer to robots have been very limited. 256, 512. We do not use any pooling layer, and instead use
 The main contribution of this paper is in enabling robot stride 2 forthelastconvolutionallayer for the dimensionality
 activity learning from human interaction videos using our reduction. We thus increase the number of filters for the last
 newly proposed convolutional future regression. We believe convolutional layer to compensate loss of information.
 this is the first work to present a deep learning-based Let f denote the hand representation network given an
 (i.e., entirely CNN-based) method for learning human-robot image at time t. Then, this network can be considered as a
 interactions fromhuman-human videos. We alsobelieve this combination of two sub functions, f =g◦h:
 is the first paper to take advantage of human ‘first-person Yˆ =f(Xˆ )=h(Fˆ )=h(g(Xˆ )), (1)
 videos’ for the robot activity learning. t t t t 
 where a function g : Xˆ → Fˆ denotes a feature extractor
 III. APPROACH 
 (from an input video frame to encoder) to get compressed
 A. System Overview intermediate visual representation (i.e., feature map) Fˆ, and
 Given a sequence of current frames, our goal is to (i) pre- h : Fˆ → Yˆ indicates a box estimator which uses the
 dict future hand locations and all interactive objects in front compressed representation as an input for locating hand
 of the robot, then to (ii) generate robot control commands boxes at time t. With the above formulation, the network
 for moving robot’s hands to the predicted hand locations. can predict hand locations Yˆ at time t after the training.
 t 
 Weemploytwocomponents for achieving the goal.Thefirst b) Future Regression Network: Although the above
 component is a perception component that consists of two hand representation network allows obtaining hand boxes in
 fully convolutional neural networks: (1) an extended version the ‘current’ frame, our objective is to get the ‘future’ hand
 of the Single Shot Multi Box Detector (SSD) [6] to create locations Yˆ instead of theirs current locations Yˆ .
 t+∆ t 

 
 
 
 
 g Hand representa,on network: t Fig. 2 summarizes data flow of our perception component
 Yˆ during testing phase. Given a video frame Xˆ t at time t, (1)
 t we extract the intermediate scene representation Fˆ using
 t 
 Xˆ Fˆ the feature extractor (g), and then (2) feed it into the future
 t t 
 … regression network (r) to get future scene representation
 r Fˆ t+∆ . Next, (3) we feed Fˆ t+∆ into the box estimator (h),
 Fˆ t Fˆ t+Δ and finally obtain future position of hands Yˆ t+∆ at time t.
 Yˆ =h(Fˆ )=h(r(Fˆ ))=h(r(g(Xˆ ))) (5)
 t+∆ t+∆ t t 
 h 
 Yˆ Fur the rmore, instead of using just a single frame (i.e., the
 t+Δ 
 current frame) for the future regression, we extend our
 Fˆ networktotakeadvantageof the previous K framestoobtain
 t+Δ 
 … Fˆ as illustrated in Fig. 1: 
 t+∆ 
 Hand representa,on network: t+Δ Yˆ =h(r([g(Xˆ ),...,g(Xˆ )])). (6) 
 t+∆ t t−(K−1) 
 Fig.2. Dataflowof our perceptioncomponentduringtestphase.Itenables 
 The advantage of our formulation is that it allows us to
 predictingh and scorrespondingto the futureframe.Only the coloredlayers 
 areused for thepredictionin the testphase. predict future hand locations while considering the implicit
 activity and object context, even without explicit detection
 ofobjectsin the scene.Ourauto-encoder-basedintermediate
 We formulate this problem as a regression problem. The representation Fˆi abstracts the scene configuration by inter-
 t 
 main idea is that the intermediate representation of the hand nally representing what objects/hands are currently in the
 representationnetwork Fˆ abstracts the hand-objectinforma- scene and where they are, and our fully convolutional future
 t 
 tionin the scene,andthatwe are abletotakeadvantageofit regressor takes advantage of it for the prediction.
 to infer the future (intermediate) representation Fˆ . Once 
 t+∆ C. Manipulation Component 
 suchregressionbecomespossible,we cansimplyplug-inthe 
 predicted future representation Fˆ to the remaining part Although our perception component is able to predict fu-
 t+∆ 
 of the hand network (i.e., h) to obtain the final future hand ture hand locations of humans in first-person human activity
 predictionresults.Therefore,wenewlydesignanetwork for videos,itisinsufficient for the robotmanipulation.Here,we
 predicting the intermediate scene representation correspond- construct another regression network (m) for mapping the
 ing to the future frame Fˆ , as a fully convolutional future predicted 2-Dhumanh and locationsin the imagecoordinate
 t+∆ 
 regression network: Fig. 2. totheactualmotorcontrolcommands.Themainassumption
 Given a current scene representation Fˆ from the hand is that a video frame from a robot’s camera will have a
 t 
 network,ourfutureregressionnetwork(r)predicts the future similar viewpoint to our training data (first-person human
 the intermediate scene representation Fˆ : videos), allowing us to take advantage of the learned model
 t+∆ 
 for the robot future hand prediction by assuming:
 Fˆ =r (Fˆ ). (2) 
 t+∆ w t Yˆ (cid:39)Yˆ (7) 
 Rt t 
 Ithassevenconvolutionallayershaving 2565×5 kernels.In 
 where, Yˆ represents robot hand locations.
 addition,ithasalayer with 102413×13 kernelsfollowedby Rt 
 Our manipulation component (m) predicts future robot
 thelastlayer that has 2561×1 kernel.Wetrained the weights 
 jointstates(Zˆ )givencurrentrobotjointstates(Zˆ ),robot
 (w) of the regression network with unlabeled first-person t+∆ t 
 hand locations (Yˆ ), and future hand locations (Yˆ )
 human activity videos using the following loss function: Rt Rt+∆ 
 tellingwhere the robot’shandsshouldmoveto.Thisnetwork
 (cid:88) 
 w∗ =argmin (cid:107)r (Fˆi)−Fˆi (cid:107)2 can be formulated with the below function:
 w t t+∆ 2 
 w 
 i,t Zˆ =m (Zˆ ,Yˆ ,Yˆ ). (8) 
 (cid:88) t+∆ θ t Rt Rt+∆ 
 =argmin (cid:107)r (g(Xˆi))−Fˆi (cid:107)2 (3) 
 w w t t+∆ 2 Our manipulation component consists of seven fully con-
 i,t 
 nected layers having the following number of hidden units
 where Xˆi indicates a video frame at time t from video i, for each layer: 32, 32, 32, 16, 16, 16, 7. The weights (θ) of
 t 
 and Fˆi represents a feature map at time t from video i. this network can be obtained by the same way that used for
 t 
 Our future regression network can use any intermediate our perception networks:
 scenerepresentation from anyintermediatelayersof the hand (cid:88) 
 θ∗ =argmin (cid:107)m (Zˆj,Yˆj ,Yˆj )−Zˆj (cid:107)2 (9)
 network, but we use the one from auto-encoder due to its θ t Rt Rt+∆ t+∆ 2 
 θ 
 j,t 
 lowerdimensionality.Finally,thefuturescenerepresentation 
 Fˆ t+∆ isfedinto the handnetwork for estimatingh and boxes where Zˆj t indicates robot joint states at time t from training
 correspondingto the futureframetogetfutureh and locations episode j, and Yˆj represents robot hand locations at time
 Rt 
 Yˆ t+∆ . t from training episode j. Fig. 3 shows our manipulation
 Yˆ =h(Fˆ ) (4) component for generating robot control commands.
 t+∆ t+∆ 

 
 
 
 
 Predicted Future 
 Manipulation Network 
 Current frame Hand locations (2) 
 Perception Motor torques (7)
 Component 
 L L L L L L L 
 L L L L L L L 
 U U U U U U U 
 F F F F F F F 
 Current 
 Hand locations (2) 
 Current status of a robot 
 32 32 32 16 16 16 7 
 Current 
 Arm joint angles (7) 
 Fig.3. Robotmanipulationcomponentof our approach.Itgeneratesrobotcontrolcomm and sgivencurrentrobotjointstate,currentroboth and locations,
 andpredictedfutureroboth and locations. 
 The combination of our perception component and ma- (u,v) in an image plane and the robot’s corresponding joint
 nipulation component provides a real-time robotics system angles at time t. We recorded these log files by making
 that takes raw video frames as its input and generates a human operator move the robot arms (i.e., the human
 motor control commands for its activity execution. Our grabbed the robot arms and moved them). We obtained such
 manipulation component can be replaced with a standard robot joint configuration sequences while moving the robot
 Inverse Kinematics, but our neural network-based model to cover possible arm motion during general human-robot
 generates more natural arm movements by considering the interactiontasks.Here,weassume that the robotissupposed
 desired location of the robot’s end-effectors as well as joint to operate in a similar environment during the test phase.
 configuration sequences (i.e., unlabeled robot logs described Note that thiswasnotrecordedunder the interactionscenario
 in the next section). (i.e., just the robot itself was moving), and no annotation
 regarding the activity or motion was provided. We used
 IV. EXPERIMENTS 
 a Baxter research robot for recording these files and the
 A. Datasets Baxterhassevendegrees-of-freedomarm:thefilecontains 9
 Ourapproachconsistsofthreedifferenttypesofnetworks variables for each arm. In order to estimate the robot’s hand
 (within the twocomponents),andwe usethreedifferenttypes positionin the imageplane,weprojected the 3-Dpositionsof
 of datasets for training each model. the Baxter’s grippers into the image plane (based on camera
 Ego Hands [23]: This is a public dataset containing 48 calibration) and recorded the projected (u,v) positions with
 first-person videos of people interacting in four types of 7 joint angles at 30 Hz.
 activities(playingcards,playingchess,solvingapuzzle,and 
 B. Baselines 
 playing Jenga).Ithas 4,800 frames with 15,053 ground-truth 
 hand labels. Here, we added 466 frames with 1,267 ground- Inordertoprovidequantitativecomparisons,wecompared
 truth annotations to the original dataset to cover more hand our perception component with four different baselines:
 postures.we use this datasettolearnourh and representation (i) Hand-crafted representation uses a hand-crafted state
 network, which is trained to locate hand boxes in a video representation based on explicit object and hand detection.
 frame. It encodes relative distances between all interactive objects
 Unlabeled Human-Human Interaction Videos: We col- in our two scenarios, and uses it to predict the future
 lected a total of 47 first-person videos of human-human hand location using neural network-based regression. More
 collaboration scenarios, with each video clip ranging from specifically, it detects objects using KAZE features [24]
 4 to 10 seconds. This dataset is a main dataset for teaching and hands using CNN based hand detector in [23], then
 a new task to our robot. It contains two types of tasks: (1) computesrelativedistancesbetweenallobjectsandh and sfor
 a person wearing the camera cleaning up all objects on a building the state representation which is a 20 dimensional
 tableasapartner(i.e.,theo the rsubject)approaches the table vector. Then, we built a new network which has five fully
 while holding a heavy box (to make a room for her/him to connected layers trained using the state representations on
 put the heavy box on the table), and (2) a person wearing the same interaction dataset we use. (ii) Hands only uses
 the camera pushing a trivet on a table toward to a partner hand locations for the future regression. It predicts future
 when he/she is approaching the table while holding a hot hand locations solely based on current hand locations with-
 cooking pan. These videos are unlabeled videos without any out considering any other visual representations. In order
 activity/hand annotation and we trained our convolutional to train this baseline model, we extracted hand locations
 regression network using this dataset. from all frames of the interaction videos using our hand
 Unlabeled Robot Activity Log Files: We prepared this representation network, then made log files to store detected
 dataset to train our robot manipulation network. It contains handlocationsineachframe and the irframenumbers.After
 50 robot log files. Each log has the robot’s hand positions this, we trained another neural network model for the future

 
 
 
 
 TABLEI TABLEII 
 EVALUATIONOFFUTUREH AND PREDICTION MEANPIXELDISTANCEBETWEENGROUNDTRUTH AND PREDICTED
 POSITIONSOFALLHANDS 
 Evaluation 
 Method 
 Precision Recall F-measure Method Mean Pixel Distance 
 Hand-craftedrepresentation 0.30±0.37 0.15±0.19 0.20±0.25 Hand-craftedrepresentation 143.85±48.77
 Handsonly 4.78±3.70 5.06±4.06 4.87±3.81 Handsonly 247.88±121.94 
 SSD with futureannotations 1 27.53±23.36 9.09±8.96 13.23±12.62 SSD with futureannotations 1 58.58±36.76
 SSD with futureannotations 2 29.21±19.16 7.92±6.45 12.10±9.42 
 SSD with futureannotations 2 79.95±102.07
 Deep Regressor(ours):K=1 27.04±16.50 21.71±14.71 23.45±14.99 
 Deep Regressor(ours):K=5 29.97±15.37 23.89±16.45 25.40±15.51 Deep Regressor(ours):K=1 51.31±39.10
 Deep Regressor(ours):K=10 36.58±16.91 28.78±17.96 30.90±17.02 Deep Regressor(ours):K=5 51.41±38.46
 Deep Regressor(ours):K=10 46.66±36.92 
 TABLEIII 
 hand location prediction using the log files, which has seven 
 fullyconnectedlayers with the samenumberofhiddenunits 
 MEANPIXELDISTANCEBETWEENGROUNDTRUTH AND PREDICTED
 as our robot manipulation network. (iii) SSD with future POSITIONOFRIGHTH AND 
 annotations 1 is a baseline that uses the original SSD model 
 Method Mean Pixel Distance 
 [6] trained based on Ego Hands dataset. Instead of training 
 Hand-craftedrepresentation 121.48±87.36
 the model to infer the current hand locations given the Handsonly 264.52±148.15
 input frame, we fine-tuned this model on Ego Hands dataset SSD with futureannotations 1 48.63±39.04
 SSD with futureannotations 2 71.36±104.18
 after changing annotations of the dataset to have “future” 
 Deep Regressor(ours):K=1 40.08±32.72 
 locations of hands instead of making it to use current hand Deep Regressor(ours):K=5 40.46±39.52
 locations.Wealsousedadditionally 466 frames for thisfine- Deep Regressor(ours):K=10 36.78±36.70
 tuning since the original Ego Hands dataset was insufficient 
 (too many repetitive hand movements) for this training. (iv) 
 SSD with future annotations 2 is a baseline also using the tions of hands. The size of the image plane was 1280*720.
 original SSDmodel,butwetrained this model from scratch. We measured this mean pixel distance only when both the
 This time we changed all annotations of the Ego Hands ground truths and the predictions are present in the same
 dataset, then trained the model. After that we fine-tuned the frame. Table II shows the mean pixel distance errors for
 model as the same way that used for the “SSD with future all four types of hands (my left, my right, your left, and
 annotations 1” baseline. your right). Once more, we can confirm that our approaches
 greatly outperform the per for mance of all the baselines. The
 C. Evaluation of our future hand prediction 
 overall average distance was a bit high due to changes
 We first evaluated the perception component of our ap- in human hand shapes and their variations, but they were
 proach in terms of precision, recall, and F-measure, and sufficient in terms of generating robot motion.
 compared them against the above baselines. In the first Wealsocomp are daccuraciesof the semethodswhileonly
 evaluation,wemade our approachtopredictboundingboxes considering my right hand predictions, since position of my
 of human hands in the future frame given the current image right hand is more important for a robot manipulation than
 frame. We measured the “intersection over union” ratio locationsofo the rtypesofhands.Thisisbecause,inourtest
 between are asofeachpredictedbox and groundtruth(future) scenarios, the robot’s activities are very focused on its right
 hand locations. Only when the ratio was greater than 0.5, hand motion. Table III shows mean pixel distance between
 the predicted box was accepted as a true positive. In this ground truth and predicted position of ‘my right hand’. We
 experiment,wer and omlysplit the setof our Human-Human can see that per for mances of our approaches are superior to
 Interaction Videos into the training and testing sets, so 32 all the baselines. Examples of our visual predictions results
 videos were used for training sets and remaining 15 videos are illustrated in Fig. 4.
 were used for testing sets in a total of 47 videos. 
 D. Real-time robot experiments 
 Table I shows quantitative results of our future hand 
 prediction. Here, the plus-minus sign (±) indicates standard Finally, we conducted a user study to evaluate the success
 deviation and K represents number of frames we used as an level of robot activities per for med based on our proposed
 input for ourregressionnetwork.Our∆was 30 frames(i.e., approach, with human subjects. A total of 12 participants
 1 sec). We are able to clearly observe that our approach (5 undergraduate and 7 graduate students) were recruited
 signifi can tly outperforms all the baselines, including the from the campus, and were asked to perform one of the
 state-of-the-art object detector SSD modified for the hand two activities (clearing the table for a partner and preparing
 prediction. Our proposed network with K = 10 yielded the a trivet for a cooking pan) together with our robot. After
 best per for mance in terms of all three metrics, at about 30.9 such interactions, the participants were asked to complete a
 score in F-measure. The best per for mance we can get with questionnaire about the robot behaviors for each task. The
 SSD was only 13.23. questionnaire had two statements (one statement for each
 In our second evaluation, we measured mean pixel dis- activity)withscales from 1(totallydonotagree)to 5(totally
 tancebetweenground truthlocations and the predictedposi- agree) to express their impression on the robot behaviors: “I

 
 
 
 
 Time (t) 
 se 
 m 
 a 
 rf 
 tu 
 p 
 n 
 I 
 sn 
 o 
 itc 
 id 
 e 
 r P 
 Predictions overlaid 
 on future frames 
 Time (t) 
 se 
 m 
 a 
 rf 
 tu 
 p 
 n 
 I 
 sn 
 o 
 itc 
 id 
 e 
 r P 
 Predictions overlaid 
 on future frames 
 Fig.4. Twoexamplesof our visualprediction.Thefirstexampleistheactivityofclearing the table,andthesecondexampleis the activityofpushing
 the trivet toward the person holding a cooking pan. The first row shows the input frames and the second row shows our future hand prediction results.
 Inthethirdrow,weoverlaid our predictionson“future”frames.Redboxescorrespondto the predicted‘mylefth and’locations,blueboxescorrespond
 to ‘my right hand’, green boxes correspond to the opponent’s left hand, and the cyan boxes correspond to the opponent’s right hand. The frames were
 capturedeveryonesecond. 
 TABLEIV 
 think the robot cleared the table to make a space for me.” 
 THESUCCESSLEVELOF OUR HUMAN-ROBOTCOLLABORATION
 for the task 1 and “I think the robot passed a trivet closer to 
 me so that I can put the cooking pan on it.” for the task 2. 
 Method Task 1 Task 2 Average 
 Inadditionto our approach(i.e.,ourperceptioncomponent Base SSD+Basecontrol 1.25±0.43 2.21±1.41 1.72±0.92
 Base SSD+Ourcontrol 1.5±0.96 2.33±1.60 1.92±1.28
 + manipulation component), we designed and implemented 
 Ourperception+Basecontrol 2.33±1.18 2.25±1.36 2.29±1.27
 thefollowingthree base lines and compared the irquantitative Ours 3.17±1.40 3.42±1.61 3.29±1.50
 results: (i) Base SSD + Base control uses the baseline 
 SSD with future annotations 1 as a perception component 
 and the base manipulation network trained using the same our real-time robot experiments with human subjects are
 robot activity log files. This base control network direct illustrated in Fig. 5.
 maps current hand locations in the image plane to current Our method operates in slow real-time with our unopti-
 seven joint angles for each robot arm, without the Zˆ term mized C++ code. It takes ∼100 ms per frame using one
 t 
 in Eq. 8. (ii) Base SSD + Our control uses SSD with Nvidia Pascal Titan X GPU, and we were able to conduct
 future annotations 1 as a perception component and our ma- real-time human-robot collaboration experiments using it.
 nipulationcomponent(from Section III-C)togeneratemotor 
 commands. (iii) Our perception + Base control used our V. CONCLUSION 
 perception component to predict future hand locations and In this paper, we proposed a new robot activity learning
 the base controlnetwork for manipulation.Inall the secases, model using a fully convolutional network for future repre-
 the final control of our robot arm is per for med by taking sentation regression. The main idea was to make the robot
 advantage of the Baxter API by providing the estimated learn the temporal structure of a human activity as its future
 future joint angle configuration. regression network, and learn to transfer such model for its
 Asaresult,eachparticipantinteracted with the robottotal own motor execution using our manipulation network. We
 of 8 timesinar and omorder.Table IVshows the results.The show that our approach enables the robot to infer the motor
 resultsindicate that ourparticipantsevaluated the robot with control commands based on the prediction of future human
 our approach per for med better on both tasks. We received a handlocationsinreal-time.Theexperimentalresultsconfirm
 higher average score of 3.29 compared to all the baselines that our approach not only predicts the future locations of
 (1.72, 1.92, and 2.29) from the participants. Examples of human/robot hands more reliably, but also is able to make

 
 
 
 
 Time (t) 
 w 
 e 
 iv 
 s’to 
 b 
 o 
 R 
 w 
 e 
 iv 
 n 
 o 
 sre 
 p 
 dr 3 
 Time (t) 
 w 
 e 
 iv 
 s’to 
 b 
 o 
 R 
 w 
 e 
 iv 
 n 
 o 
 sre 
 p 
 dr 3 
 Fig.5. Qualitativeresultsof our real-timerobotexperiments.Similarto Fig.4,there are twoexamples:clearing the table,andpushing the trivettoward
 theperson.Ineachexample,thefirstrowshows the exactframesusedasinputsto our robot(taken from arobotcamera),and the secondrowshows the
 robot and the humanfroma 3 rdpersonviewpoint.Theframes were capturedeveryonesecond. 
 robots execute the activities based on predictions. The paper [11] K. Mu¨lling, J. Kober, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters, “Learning to
 focusesonrobotlearningoflocation-basedh and movements select and generalize striking movements in robot table tennis,” The
 International Journalof Robotics Research,2013.
 (i.e., translations and natural rotations), and handling more 
 [12] T. Shu, M. S. Ryoo, and S.-C. Zhu, “Learning social affordance
 dynamic hand posture changes remains as one of our future for human-robot interaction,” in International Joint Conference on
 challenges. Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI),2016. 
 [13] H. Koppula and A. Saxena, “Physically-grounded spatio-temporal
 Acknowledgement: This work was supported by the Army object affordances,” in European Conference on Computer Vision
 (ECCV),2014. 
 Research Laboratory under Cooperative Agreement Number 
 [14] J.Walker,A.Gupta,and M.Hebert,“Patchto the future:Unsupervised
 W 911 NF-10-2-0016. visual prediction,” in IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
 Pattern Recognition(CVPR),2014. 
 [15] W. Lotter, G. Kreiman, and D. Cox, “Deep predictive coding net-
 REFERENCES 
 works for videoprediction and unsupervisedlearning,”ar Xivpreprint
 ar Xiv:1605.08104,2016. 
 [1] S. Levine, C. Finn, T. Darrell, and P. Abbeel, “End-to-end training 
 [16] C.Finn and S.Levine,“Deepvisualforesight for planningrobotmo-
 ofdeepvisuomotorpolicies,”Journalof Machine Learning Research, 
 tion,”in IEEEInternational Conferenceon Robotics and Automation
 2016. 
 (ICRA),2017. 
 [2] C. Finn, I. Goodfellow, and S. Levine, “Unsupervised learning for 
 [17] K.M.Kitani,T.Okabe,Y.Sato,and A.Sugimoto,“Fastunsupervised
 physicalinteractionthroughvideoprediction,”in Advances In Neural 
 ego-actionlearning for first-personsportsvideos,”in IEEEConference
 Information Processing Systems(NIPS),2016. 
 on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition(CVPR),2011.
 [3] K. Lee, Y. Su, T.-K. Kim, and Y. Demiris, “A syntactic approach 
 [18] A. Fathi, A. Farhadi, and J. M. Rehg, “Underst and ing egocentric
 to robot imitation learning using probabilistic activity grammars,” 
 activities,” in International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV),
 Robotics and Autonomous Systems,2013. 
 2011. 
 [4] Y. Yang, Y. Li, C. Fermu¨ller, and Y. Aloimonos, “Robot learning 
 [19] H.Pirsiavash and D.Ramanan,“Detectingactivitiesofdailylivingin
 manipulation action plans by” watching” unconstrained videos from 
 first-person camera views,” in IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
 theworldwideweb.”in AAAI,2015. 
 and Pattern Recognition(CVPR),2012. 
 [5] B. D. Argall, S. Chernova, M. Veloso, and B. Browning, “A survey [20] M. S. Ryoo, B. Rothrock, and L. Matthies, “Pooled motion features
 of robot learning from demonstration,” Robotics and Autonomous forfirst-personvideos,”in IEEEConferenceon Computer Vision and
 Systems,2009. Pattern Recognition(CVPR),2015. 
 [6] W. Liu, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, C. Szegedy, S. Reed, C. Fu, and [21] M. S. Ryoo, T. J. Fuchs, L. Xia, J. K. Aggarwal, and L. Matthies,
 A.Berg,“SSD:Singleshotmultiboxdetector,”in European Confer- “Robot-centricactivityprediction from first-personvideos:What will
 enceon Computer Vision(ECCV),2016. they do to me?” in ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-
 [7] C.Vondrick,H.Pirsiavash,and A.Torralba,“Anticipatingvisualrep- Robot Interaction(HRI),2015.
 resentations with unlabeledvideo,”in IEEEConferenceon Computer [22] I. Gori, J. K. Aggarwal, L. Matthies, and M. S. Ryoo, “Multi-type
 Vision and Pattern Recognition(CVPR),2016. activity recognition in robot-centric scenarios,” IEEE Robotics and
 [8] A.Billard,S.Calinon,R.Dillmann,and S.Schaal,“Robotprogram- Automation Letters(RA-L),2016.
 mingbydemonstration,”in Springerh and bookofrobotics,2008. [23] S. Bambach, S. Lee, D. J. Crandall, and C. Yu, “Lending a hand:
 [9] A.Gupta,C.Eppner,S.Levine,and P.Abbeel,“Learningdexterous Detecting hands and recognizing activities in complex egocentric
 manipulation for asoftrobotichand from hum and emonstrations,”in interactions,” in IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision
 IEEE/RSJInternational Conferenceon Intelligent Robots and Systems (ICCV),2015. 
 (IROS),2016. [24] P. F. Alcantarilla, A. Bartoli, and A. J. Davison, “Kaze features,” in
 [10] A.L.Thomaz and M.Cakmak,“Learningaboutobjects with human European Conferenceon Computer Vision(ECCV),2012.
 teachers,” in ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot 
 Interaction(HRI),2009. 